Soon taking off from gigantic and praised  Incheon airport. Now heading for Turkey.  our @OurInternetGCIG meeting here in Seoul we issued a statement on the upcoming @ITUSecGen meeting in Busan.  to leave World Knowledge Forum after my final debate on global education challenges. Inspiring and impressive gathering.
Korea has the highest enrolment in tertiary education of all the OECD countries. An impressive commitment to education throughout society.
Seoul is one of the best networked and connected capitals of the world. Close to here is least networked and connected capital Pyongyang.
Can Compact Nuclear Fusion work? Is a new atomic age emerging? Fascinating possibilities. I hope it succeeds.  strong signal of Norway FM @borgebrende to go to Sierra Leone and discuss Ebola challenge directly.  law severely limiting foreign ownership will be another heavy blow to the independence of media in Russia.  ministers from all over the world - but unfortunately not Sweden - in Korea on protecting biodiversity.  great interest from young people of Korea for the different items under discussion here. Fun and stimulating.  debates on World Knowledge Forum in Seoul. Here on the coming internet of things and net governance.  provocation at Serbia-Albania football match. I hope the two PM’s will see the need to move forward in bilateral links.
Critical talks today in Vienna with Iran FM @JZarif on nuclear issue. All sides must now show readiness to go the extra mile for a deal.
Oh, Dear and Magnificent Leader, Our Eternal Inspiration, the things we have done for you..  of very good @OurInternetGCIG meeting here in Seoul. Laid out plans for work ahead. Lots of issues. Meet next in Ottawa in November.
Among recent Korean invitation is the selfie-pole. Yet to conquer the world, but...  you haven't had a decent Korean dinner your life is not what it ought to be.  Yes, we found a couple of grey suits as well. Women? Well...  for lunch pause in @OurInternetGCIG discussions on challenges of net fragmentation. Preserve an open global net.  President Park  was also here for the opening of @wkforum this morning. Then she's off to Europe.  in Seoul. And soon the opening ceremony of @wkforum 2014. With also Korea President Park speaking.    also here in Korea over government trying to monitor and control part of the net. Lively debate.  by Mladen Ivanić in the lead for the position of Serb member of Bosnia presidency. But still there is no final result.
After Samsung visit @OurInternetGCIG members got together for dinner in Seoul. Tomorrow we will focus on risk of fragmentation of the net.
@alicepetren True. And been for some time. Tuzla troubles should have been a wake up call.
Following Bosnia election results. Very close race in Serb RS. Expected changes in Federation. Broad government necessary.
Landed in Seoul on a sunny and most pleasant day. Media here in frenzy over what's going on in Pyongyang.  really impressive how Helsinki Airport has turned into Europe’s gateway to Asia. Flights leaving for all over East Asia at the moment.
Taking off from Helsinki for Seoul and days there with first @OurInternetGCIG and then @wkforum. Always a fascinating country to visit.
Still no sustainable agreement on Gaza. Blockade must be lifted. Elections. Otherwise just a pause between the wars. #GazaCairoConference
I hear it’s a lovely sunny day throughout Bosnia today, and I do hope that this translates into a high turn-out in the elections.
Here a quick guide to the essential facts about the Bosnia election today.  advance in Kobane must certainly be stopped, but ISIL offensive in Iraq’s Anbar province is not getting the attention it deserves.
Step by step authoritarianism in Egypt is strengthened. We must not abandon human rights and freedom also for Egypt.  starts breaking up the net. Fragmentation real risk. Key topic for @OurInternetGCIG in Seoul next week.   CIS meeting in Minsk doesn't seem to have been an entirely jolly affair. More signs of tensions than of unity.   to tomorrow’s election, voters of Bosnia ought to contemplate the stark message in the new EU progress report.  warnings against  
Novaya Gazeta there seems to be a new phase of increased media restrictions in Russia.  good meeting earlier today with Lescek Balzerovic. His radical reforms put Poland on the path to prosperity.  Can Ukraine do the same?
It was an hilarious evening! Everyone had great fun! By Pyongyang standards...  congratulations to Malala for the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize.  Greatest of Leaders and Light of Mankind is always followed by His Devoted People.  off from a sunny Brussels. Back to Stockholm and its pleasures.  in #stateofeu discussions about lack of strong EU strategy on neighbourhood challenges.  in discussions at #StateOfEU that larger nations are attempting to renationalise EU foreign policy. Everyone sees this as a danger.
Congratulations to @MFAIceland and all others of relevance on this year's Leif Erikson Day.
From a friend… on the logic of Crimea… Belarus Leader indicates Russia should be handed back to the Mongols… Ouch.  so called industrial policy is incompatible with our clear EU competition rules, says @AlmuniaJoaquin. #StateOfEU
Those interested in what’s going on in Brussels bubble can watch live stream @friendsofeurope #StateofTheEU  the debates with @FriendsofEurope on #StateOfTheEU at the moment. Certainly much to be said on the subject.
Good event in Brussels yesterday with @svenaringsliv on economic challenges for EU. App 80% of Sweden’s trade is with the wider EU market.
To downgrade EU enlargement efforts is to damage long-term peace and prosperity prospects for all of Europe.  PM Renzi today trying to press reforms for more flexible labour market through in Rome. Sweden now seems to be going the other way.
Very true: “The economies with more flexibility in labour market weathered the crisis best in terms of employment.”  read the new enlargement report with keen interest. A core EU policy that must not be neglected!  taking off for Brussels. Reconnect to some of the economic issues facing EU. TTIP and single digital market core challenges ahead.
Kobane could well redefine the wider conflict in the Levant. Key if Ankara and Washington comes together for a response.
Glorious Socialism! 25 years ago the GDR 40 year celebration. Music. Flags. Speeches. Soldiers. All gone...  of oil sinking towards 90 dollar per barrel. That will have consequences.
Welll, it looks as if my guest appearance on @TheDailyShow is only available on other side of the pond.  Just as  Gripen fighters took part in Baltic Region Training Event at Ämari air base in Estonia.  for meeting in Seoul next week of @OurInternetGCIG commission. We will focus on the dangers of a fragmentation of the net.
The story of the innovations of the net age by @WalterIsaacson will be required reading. Saw him recently at Harvard.  the Digital Diplomacy Battle, the Upstarts Will Start to Win Out   @FedericaMog @EPForeignAff Oh yes, and many certainly thought I was too explicit on the subject as FM. Even on Twitter.
Neither @FedericaMog nor @EPForeignAff had much to say on how to meet challenge of a revisionist Russia. Difficult, but clearly necessary.
Seems as if @FedericaMog will take up the baton on a truly new @euglobstrat. High time. Challenging task. Urgently needed.
Bold structural reforms imperative in order to give Ukraine a better and secure future.  no coincidence that the first visit of new Nato SG @jensstoltenberg goes to Warsaw.
Later today @FedericaMog will appear at @EPForeignAff to discuss her plans. A strategic vision for Europe is needed.  ought to step up on Ukraine - but Berlin and Paris are increasingly doing their own thing. This brings dangers.  Latvia’s election the Russian-dominated Harmony party lost 5%. Country’s European course remains.
Leaving Visby after delightful and interesting weekend here. But state of the world depressing.  crunch time approaches in theIran talks it's imperative that we see the truly strategic issues at stake.  to Latvia FM @edgarsrinkevics for his strong performance in yesterday's national election.   news that the Constitutional Court of Turkey continues to protect also internet freedom.  order for us to attain the rights that Beijing has promised, the rest of the world has to stand with Hong Kong.”  important Brazil today President Dilma Rousseff seeks reelection for a second term. Brazil and Sweden have a strategic partnership.
And today there is national elections in Bulgaria. Has had four governments during past 18 months. Needs reforms and stability.
@Cornubot Previous government had hoped and worked for it. The new one will speak for itself.
New expansion of nuclear warheads in our adjacent Northern areas now a fact. We had hoped for reductions.  And that was a mistake. Reduces pressure for reforms in Ukraine and makes Moscow press for further steps back from EU road.
Happy Eid Al-Adha to all Muslims in Sweden and around the world!
@JulieBishopMP Thanks for good cooperation. I look back also on our first meeting in your constituency in Perth. Great place.
I hear that Norway exports of salmon to Belarus has increased sixfold lately. Strange. Belarus is a salmon-exporting country. To Russia.
Key national election in Latvia today. The country will take over EU presidency first part of 2015 with next Eastern Partnership summit.
Most enjoyable in Visby at this time of the year. But I'm here for discussions on the challenges of Europe's East.  Thanks. I will continue to stay engaged with Turkey on the important reform and European issues.
Arrived in Visby. In the middle of the Baltic Sea. Always a special magic here during early autumn days like these.
Chris Patten, who knows, sees the demonstrators in Hong Kong as city’s future.
Read more at   EU did condemn the recent Israeli decisions to approve a plan for new settlement activity in Givat Hamatos.  worth reading. Is Russia heading for political chaos?  reports that Russian officers are part of the fighting trying to capture Donetsk airport. This is a clear break of cease fire agreement.
Another nine UN peacekeepers tragically killed in Mali. Sweden will join mission early next year.  hope EU reacts against Israel governments plans for new illegal settlements in Givat Hamatos area. A further threat to a peace process.
Tonight we are all at @SkavlanTVShow! Politics, music, drama, sport. And - of course! - a selfie.  UK policy undermining the European Court of Human Rights will be warmly welcomed by dark forces of repression all over our continent.
@martinlidegaard Thanks! We had a good journey together - and will certainly remain in touch.
I warmly congratulate Margot Wallström as new FM of Sweden. She brings EU experience to the position.
@borgebrende a Thank you. Always enjoyed working with you and with Norway. We have so much in common.
Freedom of demonstrations and freedom of speech must be fully respected also in Hong Kong. Also EU should speak up.  Löfven now designated as new PM of Sweden. But with the weakest base of a government in our modern history. I wish him luck.
After a very late but highly enjoyable evening now on the way to our last cabinet meeting. I suppose decisions will be as wise as ever.
@FredrikSkavlan Absolut! Men det innebär på intet sätt att det är sista natten med gänget.
@FredrikSkavlan Tänker du sluta?
Here my "summing up" speech as delivered at @uisweden on Monday. In an English translation this time.  Thanks. Our links with Finland always our No1 bilateral link. And always a pleasure working with you. Good speech in Berlin.
I join others in welcoming @jensstoltenberg as new Secretary General of @NATO. He knows our Nordic and High North world well.
What's happening in Hong Kong obviously has far greater implications. For the future of all China.  noting the dramatic increase in net control in China since the start of the Hong Kong protests.  reminder by @ValerieAmos that 11 million vulnerable people in Syria require urgent help.  @annieloof och @goranhagglund på riksdagens konsert.  stressed urgency for also Sweden to make its contribution to fighting Ebola. Hope new government will act fast.  Thank you for constructive years of working together. And we will continue in somewhat different ways.
Intense TV interviews with each and everyone a day like this. Was followed by incoming PM Löfven.  service before the opening of Parliament. Different churches and beliefs here.  team preparing to leave. Farewell from all the staff at the ministry. Flowers and speeches. It was a great time!  day at the ministry. Although the day will be dominated by official opening of the Parliament. And proposal for new PM as a result.
We have every reason to follow events in Hong Kong these days very closely. Repression must not be accepted.
I also found out that I have taken part in app 130 EU Council meetings. All GAERC and FAC except one short extra. And I’m still alive.
@sikorskiradek @UrbanAhlin Well, gentlemen, the best of luck to both of you. A new Speaker’s Partnership might perhaps emerge.
Off to @UISweden to speak about my time as FM during since 2006. I found out that I have had no less than 111 EU colleagues these years.
I was also interviewed by Monocle on the upcoming change of government in Sweden.  @UrbanAhlin as new Speaker of Parliament. Been effective, constructive and competent opposition foreign affairs spokesman.
Nearly 150.000 persons displaced by fighting in Libya. Crisis there as bad as in Levant and Mesopotamia. Implications for Europe very grave.
Sweden ranked as the third most innovative society on this planet. It could be worse.  ever peaceful and democratic transition of power in Afghanistan. Hugely important. And encouraging.
New Afghanistan President @ashrafghani just installed. Congratulations. Wish I had been there.  good to see @jonasgahrstore here in Stockholm during the weekend. We were FM partners during an important and constructive period.
The EU is the world’s leading trader in goods and services, and the first trading partner of more than 100  @MalmstromEU will be questioned in European Parliament. I expect a competent and robust defence of also key TTIP trade talks with US.
“Putin has more far-reaching aims”. Interview with me in World Post and elsewhere.  spent the night mobilising all resources there was. Ordered every helicopter to fly, fly, fly. Some were saved. But far far far too few.
I vividly remember the first call. And calling out to Stockholm Radio to check. The night of the enormous tragedy of M/S Estonia.
Hailstorm of new laws will limit media and Internet freedom even further in Russia. The country will suffer.   the end of the day, Turkey's contribution to fighting ISIL is bound to be crucial. And it's moving ahead.   should feel ashamed of itself after cutting gas to Ukraine. Ashamed.  to see how Ukraine exports shifts from Russia to EU. We liberalise trade - Russia blocks.  news with ground-breaking new agreements between EU and Canada. Took some time. Important for the future.  that we managed to preserve commitment to further EU enlargement negotiations. It was a close call, I fear.  in Stockholm. Hopeless traffic. A mess. And autumn has arrived. Unavoidable, I guess.
President Putin disowns agreement with EU and threatens new measures against Ukraine. He aims to completely sabotage Ukraine EU policy.
Leaving Manhattan after exceedingly hectic days here at the UN. But I think we managed to do some good things for Sweden and our profile.
@MarcusCooks @RoosterHarlem Certainly did! And will be back!
Natural to be part of the #HeForShe campaign here as well.  the hectic schedule just before departing it was important to sit with Ukraine PM and friend Arsenij Yatsenjuk.  just signed the agreement on our contribution to the UN peacekeeping force in Mali. @UNMINUSMA @UNPeacekeeping  productive Nordic meeting with Republic of Korea FM Yun Byung-se.  Human rights in North Korea among topics.  Bank President Jim Yong Kim very strongly warns for “the potential meltdown” of Africa and says we must “do whatever it takes”.
Assessment that we must immediately scale up our response to Ebola by a factor of 20. Otherwise risk that it will continue exponentially.
Now the emergency meeting on the need to massively scale up our response to the Ebola threat. SG Ban Ki-moon chars.  noting that Sweden is the 2nd biggest contributor in the world to the UN system per capita - 90% of our contribution is voluntary.
Sweden is a strong supporter of the @icrc Health Care in Danger campaign. Here today with  @borgebrende.  Syria more than 45 representatives of the Syrian Arab Red Crescent and the Palestine Red Cross have been killed since start of conflict.
Talking about the imperative of protective health care workers in conflicts at @ICRC meeting at UN here in New York.  dinner with all FM’s from Europe and North America. I stressed key importance of strategic focus on TTIP and Ukraine.
Had a good meeting also with UN Syria Envoy Staffan de Mistura. Could there be new openings towards a genuine peace process in Syria?
Also Sweden was a co-sponsor of the important UN Security Council Resolution 2178.
I’m worried by some states using new terrorist threats as another pretext to restrict freedom of and on the global internet.
Our sincere condolences to France. Horrific act with hostage Herve Gourdel brutally killed by terrorists.
UNSC unanimously decides resolution 2178 on stopping terrorist. Under Chapter 7: we must adapt laws also in Sweden.  Obama says that around 15.000 terrorist fighters from app 40 countries have come to Syria. That’s a very large number.
Slowly the UN Security Council is trying to come to order for its important session on foreign terrorist fighters.  Obama starts his speech with strong words on Russia's aggression against Ukraine.  can follow the speeches at UN General Assembly live here. President Obama next on the list.  Ban Ki-moon opens general UN debate. Calls for action against climate change, aggressions, Ebola and poverty.  in NY. Big day with start of big debate. World leaders will parade with their speeches. Marathon of  visit to New York is never complete without an evening at Red Rooster. Always enjoyable. With good company.   an hour with Henry Kissinger also discussing his new book "World Order".  also here in New York with the Freedom Online Coalition. Threats to freedom multiplying.  also Norway FM @borgebrende at UN and EU meeting on humanitarian help to Syria. Situation getting worse.  years ago Syria was a middle income country. Now it’s a huge humanitarian disaster and a throughly destroyed economy and society.
Sweden has cut emissions by 23% since 1990, while GDP is up 60%. We predict a 40% reduction in GHG by 2020, and zero by 2050. #Climate2014
Morning in New York. Soon off to day's first meeting with @ValerieAmos on world's immense humanitarian challenges.  will be live tweeting of Climate Summit today on @climate2014live.
Excellent and important report on The New Climate Economy. It's possible! Will be discussed here today.  is the day of the Climate Summit here in New York. PM Reinfeldt will be there with the record of Sweden.  Harvard to New York and straight into informal dinner with FM’s engaged in the issues of the Middle East. They are not getting easier.
Great discussions with the scholars and students at Harvard together with @SenatoreMonti.  is a live stream from our discussions at Harvard University on Ukraine and Europe.   meeting between the Iran and Saudi Arabia FM’s the most significant during the big UN week this year? We’ll see.  Crimson gives you everything that will be happening at the Harvard campus this very day.  Harvard to discuss Europe and Ukraine tomorrow with former Italy  PM Monti and others at @cesharvard.  with a decent bookstore. At Harvard Square in Cambridge. Difficult decisions...  to @ashrafghani on being elected new President of Afghanistan.  A good friend.  is another Russia. And there is hope for Europe.  to take off from slightly rainy Oslo. Destination first New York and then Boston. A day over the Atlantic.  excellent discussions at #IISSGSR. Key question: Do we have enough policy bandwidth to deal with all the challenges of today?
Horrible news of new ISIL offensive. 70.000 Syrian Kurds flee to Turkey in just 24 hours.   Thanks for excellent cooperation! And good luck with the continued and important European engagement of Norway.
I warmly welcome signing of National Unity Agreement in Kabul. It paves way for a democratic and stable transition.   attending energy session at #IISSGSR. Great uncertainty on Russia-China gas deal. Key issues evidently not settled.
I'm honoured to be asked to become a member of the Council of the @IISSorg. A premier forum for the truly vital global strategic dialogues.
Good question without clear answer: is there any deal with Iran that Israel will not oppose and US Congress will not try to stop? #IISSGSR
Now see fourth frozen conflict on border of Russia, and fifth such sustained by the armed forces of the Russian federation. #IISSGSR
Whether a final deal on Iran nuclear issue is possible now is uncertain, but no one wants to break off or head to a new conflict. #IISSGSR
In #IISSGSR discussion @BarhamSalih stresses need for political arrangement and local legitimacy to fight ISIL successfully in Iraq.
I couldn't be at the UN for the Iraq meeting yesterday, but noted what Norway FM @borgebrende had to say.  day at #iissgsr in Oslo with continued discussion of consequences of Russia aggression against Ukraine.  he moves up in hierarchy of Poland I'm sad to see  @sikorskiradek leave as FM. He has been a star on the EU foreign policy scene.
Russian ambassador has just received a protest against the grave violation of Swedish airspace by Russian fighters-bombers on Wednesday.
Final count shows red and green parties in parliament increasing their share of votes since 2010 by 0,01%. Most impressive.
Taking off for Oslo and @IISSorg great conference there. Norway FM @borgebrende will however be in New York for UNSC session on Iraq.
EU condemns repression in Eritrea, including illegal imprisonment of the Eritrean-EU citizen Dawit Isaak.  United Kingdom stays united. So must Europe.
Here is the full text of Ukraine President Poroshenko speech to the U.S. Congress yesterday.  obvious that Moscow is using combination of pressure and salami tactics to try to ravel EU-Ukraine agreement.  have to wait for the morning to know the outcome of today's Battle of Britain. Of momentous importance.
Pr Poroshenko: "Not only a Ukrainian war. It is Europe's and it is America's too. It is a war for the free world."  cabinet meeting, but with no major decisions taken. We are in between the election result and a new government coming into office.
I hope we will not see the balkanisation of the British isles. Europe and the world needs a strong and vibrant United Kingdom.
Now seems as if the red and green parties did not gain 0,1% in our election  - in fact they didn't increase their share at all. Interesting.
Still wonderful weather here in Stockholm. But the old government is, of course, still in office.
Well, the Vikings certainly got a bad press. But, yes, the relative reality might have been somewhat better.  very length briefing for both Foreign and Defence Committee of Parliament on both Ukraine/Russia and the wider Baltic area.
Seems as if Narva in Estoniahas acquired a new importance - where Russians can buy the food they want,  ratification today by European Parliament and Ukraine Rada of Association Agreement EU-Ukraine.    see that today's editorial in Financial Times regrets the demise of "one of the most competent reform governments in the EU". That's life.
A new day slowly arrives by the cradle of democracy. But I'm on my way back to Stockholm.  here and heading directly to @AthensForum to discuss the state of democracy in our world of today.  in Thüringen and Brandenburg in Germany also gives ground for concern. The continued rise of the populist right in Europe.
Today I'm off to @Athensforum to discuss democracy under pressure. It's International Day of Democracy today.   is something of a chock with the right populist Sweden Democrats with 13% emerging as third largest party of the country.
PM Reinfeldt will offer resignation tomorrow. But government stays until parliament reconvenes Sept 30 and forming of new government starts.
Problematic election result tonight. Alliance government lost, but only populist right won. Red and green parties far from majority.
A steady stream of voters on this most pleasant day. Here to the polling station in my old school Östra Real.  day in Sweden. A day of reflection, calm and ultimate decision. And a sunny and pleasant day here in Stockholm.
The final rally of the alliance party leaders in the 2014 campaign. Tomorrow it's up to the voters to decide.  was a pleasure to meet youth activists from Ukraine observing the final day of our election campaign.  Russian forces trying to capture Donetsk airport? If that is the case then it's a clear Moscow violation of ceasefire agreement.
Important message from @CommissionerHR: "Human rights abuses in Crimea need to be addressed."
@AnsipEU And the very best of luck with your new and important assignment!
Back on the campaign trail. With FinMin Anders Borg and Min Infrastructure @elmsatersvard. In central Stockholm.  flags of Ukraine in solidarity on campaign booths of all major Swedish political parties. Except the extremes.  call on Russia to immediately release Eston Kohver and ensure his safe return to Estonia."  had time to attend the usual "family photo" with Nordic and Baltic FM's in Tallinn before heading back home.  not to be able to join friends at @yesukraine in Kiev today. Election campaign at home. But our support for Ukraine remains strong.
We are all obviously very concerned with the Russian abduction of an Estonian policeman. It is a serious matter. He must be released.
Enjoyable and most useful dinner with Nordic and Baltic FM's in the fog somewhere outside of Tallinn. Pity @borgebrende had to stay in Oslo.
"Sweden has played a bigger part in Europe and on the world stage than its 10m-odd population would seem to justify."  EU sanctions against Russia now go into effect. Future dependent on developments. As before.  ministry in Stockholm and heading to Tallinn and dinner there with all the Nordic and Baltic FM's. Much too discuss these days.
Impressive campaign teams across the country. Here in Västerås earlier today.  now for campaign meeting in Västerås. Our alliance campaign is clearly having a good momentum now. Three days to go!
New figures out this morning shows nearly 100.000 new jobs in Sweden during the past year. A most impressive performance!
Starting this day with cabinet meeting. Decision to submit agreements with Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia for ratification.
Nomination of @MalmstromEU as Trade Commissioner has been warmly welcomed on both sides of the Atlantic.   long but most enjoyable day of campaigning in Östergötland region. Now back to Stockholm through the misty late summer night.
"Swedes value the benefits of being in the EU, and clearly favor a forward-leaning foreign policy."  also approve of the way government is managing relations with Russia: 56%   Sweden 74% supports government handling of foreign policy. Very high. EU average is 52% and US is 35%.  from key TTIP talks with US the trade portfolio @malmstromEU also includes DCFTA implementation with Eastern Partnership counties.
I should also congratulate on Denmark’s @vestager for important competition EU portfolio.  A good liberal.
Congratulations @JunckerEU for appointing @MalmstromEU as Trade Commissioner. Excellent for all of Europe!   like sitting in a bath full of gasoline and looking for the matches”, says Swe Trade Union chief in FT on our election. Strange.
On my way to Norrköping for campaign with @CarlssonSwe and @AnnaMariaCB. And then onwards to Linköping with also @KinbergBatra.
Excellent with the new EU-Canada Strategic Partnership Agreement. Much to do together! @HonJohnBaird   True. Room for improvement there as well. But too high taxes and too much regulation the key issues. Redgreen would make worse.
We agree with Ukraine that Russia must meet the demands on withdrawal of its forces put forward by European Council.  Swedish government ought to be riding high.” High praise for our policies in  campaign. Here in Uppsala with EU minister @birgittaohlsson. We argue for a strong Sweden in a strong EU.  World Competitiveness Report Sweden gets some minus for too high taxes and too strict labour market regulation.   i dag kommer 
@birgittaohlsson och jag till Uppsala. Valspurt!  welcome new Iraq government under PM Haider al-Abadi, and encourage it to speedily resolve outstanding  clear: the international community will not rest until there is clarity on responsibility for MH17 murders.  very clearly tightening in our election. Trend clear. Gap has been halved in just a couple of days.  @henrikbrors Very bad political signal if enlargement is deliberately downgraded. Will further instability in neighbourhood.
Seems as if also Russian units from the Kola Peninsula have been fighting in Ukraine.   worrying news from Kabul with stalemate in political talks and continued dispute over election result. Risks the progress we have done.
Good with @ECDCEU monitoring of the Ebola outbreak in West Africa and EU exposure.  campaign spirit at our meetings all around Stockholm today. Late, but election campaign is starting to heat up.  with Kurdish, Turkish, Arab, Somali and many other friends at Tensta market today.  We gave Sweden a new start after the decay of the 80’s and the very deep crisis that resulted. Wasn’t easy, but we did it.
Why #RussiaInvadedUkraine  Yes, Poland is the only EU country that has done better than Sweden. Congratulations!
@Voltairesande True that the way we handled the crisis in early 90’s was important. Profound reforms done. I was PM then.
@Svennemano If we keep the trend reported in Sifo poll we will win. But all depends on last week of campaigns.
Since crisis started 2008 Sweden’s economy has grown 7%. EU as a whole down 1,3%. Denmark and Finland even more. Norway up only 4%.
Since 2006 we have added 300.000 new jobs to the Swedish economy. Most other countries have unfortunately gone the other way.
A week to go until Swedish election. Race tightening. A united Alliance versus the divided red and green parties. Also on foreign policy.
Very true by @ECFR on EU need to keep focus on Balkans. That’s also why an enlargement commissioner is a necessity.  like Scotland independence referendum will be a true cliffhanger. Result has vast implications for all of Europe.
Sincerely hope that recent ceasefire in easternmost Ukraine will hold. Russian forces must be withdrawn from Ukraine territory.
@kallekn En av mina medarbetare, tror jag. Helt OK.
And now approaching take off from Copenhagen to Stockholm. Managed to get on an earlier flight. Home, sweet home.
Hög tid att rösta runt om i världen! Får inte missas!  I don't know what they do at @NATOWales today, but here it's full speed ahead.  Tack!
Early morning. Taking off from Heathrow. For Copenhagen. Campaigning in Southern Sweden during the day.
Here my interview with @camanpour on CNN from @NATOWales yesterday evening.  photo hardly looks real. But it actually is. Nice crowd. And we had a more relaxed time than it looks.  Newport and @NATOWales after most productive day. Our partnership with NATO of growing importance. We build security together.
I don't know why everyone else is looking at the photographers. I have seen such before.  of ceasefire in Ukraine. Would be welcome. To be serious should incl withdrawal of Russian forces and Ukraine controlling its border.
Media have set up their stations with view of golf course with APC's. Slightly bizarre.  schedule with meetings at @NATOWales. Concluded meeting on Afghanistan. But many discussions on Russia and Ukraine in the margins.
Morning in Bristol. More than 70 delegations from all over the world for @NATOWales. Russia aggression, defence of Europe and ISIL in focus.
Rumours in Brussels that @JunckerEU intends to abolish Commissioner for Enlargement. Very bad signal. Abdication of responsibility.
France doesn’t consider time for delivery of Mistral to Russia to be appropriate. That’s an understatement. But certainly a good decision.
Was interviewed by @Aljazeera before leaving Brussels and heading to @NATO Wales.  off for first Brussels for @eueeas meeting and then for Bristol and the @NATOWales summit.
@DmitriTrenin I assume that regular Russian forces are operating under a clear chain of command. And they are now key to conflict.
@DmitriTrenin Kremlin might claim that it is are not part of the conflict, but regular Russian forces inside Ukraine most certainly are.
Estonia President @IlvesToomas takes the opportunity of press conference to highlight net freedom and the Nordic region of prosperity.
President Obama passed over Sweden before his early touch down in Tallinn. Sunny and beautiful day by the Baltic Sea.  UN peacekeepers have been killed in Mali so far this year. Sweden is preparing to deploy to UN force there.  increase in defence spending in Sweden to increase readiness and training. This in addition to substantial long term increases.
From early tomorrow morning @errnews will bring live coverage of President Obama’s visit to the foreign capital closest to Stockholm.
US advance aircraft for President Obama’s visit to Tallinn tomorrow are now descending also on nearby Helsinki.  on Finland managing its relationship with Eastern neighbour: credible defense and a strong free-market system.  for reserve flow of gas from EU into Ukraine opened today by Slovakia. An important step.
@mfarussia You should know that Australia FM @JulieBishopMP is not a “he”. Fairly basic.
Internet Governance Forum #IGF2014 opening in Istanbul. Important discussions on net freedom and net governance. @OurInternetGCIG is there.
Israel decision to expropriate almost 990 acres of privately owned Palestinian land near Bethlehem risks further undermining peace efforts.
Russian forces inside Ukraine continue their offensive against Ukraine forces. Consolidating and slightly enlarging the separatist enclave.
Today it’s 75 years since the start of Second World War. The pact with Stalin paved the way for Hitler to attack Poland.
Frankfurt Airport. Slightly messy on evening like this. Solid Sunday newspapers. A pleasure. Soon taking off for Stockholm. Much to do.
Sorry I can’t join @StefanFuleEU and FM friends in Chisinau tonight for Friends of Moldova meeting. Sweden calling. But our support clear.
Was a good talk in Brussels yesterday between Ukraine President Poroshenko and our PM Reinfeldt.  leaders clear in condemning “the aggression by Russian armed forces on Ukrainian soil.”  of our EU FM Milano meeting. Dominated by new Russia aggression in Ukraine and consequences. Baton over to meeting of PM’s in Brussels.
PM Reinfeldt will have a bilateral meeting with Ukraine President Poroshenko in Brussels later today. Express Sweden’s support to Ukraine.
Very little doubt now that Russia will use also its regular armed forces to try to carve out a Novorossyia semi-state from Ukraine.
Important commitment by the Turkish leadership to intensify efforts to settle the Kurdish issue.  day of informal EU FM meeting here in Milano. Yesterday dominated by profound discussion on Russia. We are in new situation.
"War in Europe is not a hysterical idea."  decides on new disbursement of its support program to Ukraine. Very much needed.  to new Turkey FM Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu. I hope he continues his previous European political orientation.
We must call a spade a spade:  this is the 2nd Russian invasion of Ukraine within a year.
Landed in Milan. Flew here in a Boeing 717, although for me it’s still a DC9. A classic that never loses its attraction.
Taking off for Milan and informal meeting of EU FM’s there. Agenda fairly obvious. EU has never been as challenged in its neighbourhood.
Talked with @BBCWorld about alarming escalation of Russia activities against and in Ukraine. UN Security Council ought to address situation.
Independent Russian media reports burials of paratroopers in Pskov.  meeting this morning. I briefed also on the escalation of Russian military moves against Ukraine. Key EU and NATO meetings upcoming.
@wisemanswisdoms @CBildt @anderslindberg @jsjostedt Ja. De avgörande förstärkningarna med bl a ubåtar och nya luftförsvarssystem tar tid.
We are now evidently seeing fighting between regular Russian and regular Ukrainian forces in Eastern Ukraine. There is a word for this.
It was a truly beautiful day in Halland today. But soon I'm taking off for Stockholm again. New duties calling.  opposition parties deeply divided about Sweden signing Host Nation Support Memo with NATO. Bad for them.
Today its Independence Day for Moldova. We congratulate and salute European determination of its government!
Interesting on Finland, Russia and sanctions. Gloomy outlook for Russia economy, but very marginal effect on Finland.  the beach on this beautiful morning in my native Halland. Speaking on US policy and campaigning for better Sweden.  is Raoul Wallenberg Memorial Day. His memory should inspire us to solidarity and civic courage.  and Finland are working together on Memorandum of Understanding on Host Nation Support with NATO.  welcome the Gaza ceasefire agreement. But important that talks on complete lifting of blockade and other issues are not delayed unduly.
EU and its Common Foreign and Security Policy will need strong and serious leadership in the years ahead. Challenges are mounting rapidly.
Rainy day in Stockholm. Hope it’s better in Halmstad later today. But first meeting and discussion with all our Ambassadors.
PM Reinfeldt makes clear that we will look at legal measures to stop individuals joining terrorist and jihadist groups in other countries.
Leaving Gothenburg after interesting and productive day here. Taking the fast train back to Stockholm.  kampanj. Vid @nyamoderaterna valstuga i Göteborg med Maria Rydén. Lite lätt regn en stund.  reports of new direct Russian military incursions into Ukraine. We seems to have reached a new level of conflict.
The centre for thehuge EU effort on graphene - the material of the future - is here in Gothenburg. #UDgbg  all our Ambassadors looking at the global potential of West Sweden. #UDgbg  our annual meeting of Swedish ambassadors goes also to other parts of the country. This year I take them to Gothenburg. #UDgbg
Lookimg forward to being able to follow Ukraine events also through @uatodaytv.  time also for visiting the longest and most poetic runic inscription in Sweden at the famous stone by Rök.  my way through the beautiful woods of this part of Sweden. Magic light on a day like this.  rain, but still beautiful as I prepare to leave Harpsund after cabinet discussions here. Gothenburg next.  is the day! Слава Україні!
Looks as if the Russian truck convoy was at least as interested in taking things out of Ukraine as in bringing aid in.
Important that Germany Chancellor Merkel now raises the issue of EU help in rebuilding of Donbass region. Will be needed. And expensive.
As usual substantial media attention on our cabinet meeting at Harpsund.  the Ukraine Flag Day today, with Independence Day coming tomorrow. Congratulations to both!
On my way to PM’s country residence Harpsund for annual informal gathering on primarily economic policy issues. But the world will figure.
Prayer for Ukraine in the old St Sophia Cathedral in Kiev today.  we warmly congratulate Ukraine on its Independence Day. Your independence and territorial integrity important for all of Europe.
Starting day with TV4 Nyhetsmorgon to discuss the state of the world. Numerous grave challenges. Will affect also Sweden.
The biggest story today is not the illegal “aid” convoy from Russia, but the confirmed presence of regular Russian army units in Ukraine.
Old friend Fred Bergsten is theSwedish-American of The Year, and it was a pleasure to see him here.  2006 this government has increased budget for humanitarian relief from 3 to 5 billion SEK. Here reaching Erbil.  took much too long to get permission from Baghdad, but now Swedish relief flights are arriving in Erbil.  like “aid convoy” now breaking into Ukraine following units of 76th Airborne Division. Full scale attempt to secure key areas.
Sweden decided to give Euro 3,8 million in humanitarian aid to Ukraine now.
APC clearly from 76 Airborne Division from Pskov found in Eastern Ukraine. Crack unit of Russia now intervening.  quarter of a century since @BalticWay. When peoples of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania demanded their freedom.  closes four McDonald’s outlets in Moscow. Kremlin sanctions against people of Russia intensifying.
Time for the first full cabinet meeting after the weeks of summer. Economic and budget issues in focus. But also external ones.
Press briefing with FinMin Anders Borg on a more demanding, even dangerous, external environment in years ahead.  day with children and displaced people in difficult situation certainly makes deep impression. With @KGeorgievaEU  Thank! I was impressed by the work your people are doing there.
Wheels up from Erbil with @KGeorgievaEU. Much to report back to other EU governments. We must stay engaged with the people here.
Had time to give interview to @cnni before it’s time to start to prepare to leave this emergency.
Today it’s 11 years since the horrible terrorist attack against UN Hq in Baghdad. We remember and honour those who lost their lives.
Superb work here in Northern Iraq also by @UNIraq, @OCHA, @WFP, @theIRC and many others. But more efforts needed by us all.
As always impressed by work of @ICRC in situation like these. Proud that we are helping to finance their life-saving work.
Important meeting with KRG President Barzani on all the challenges. He was very grateful for our visit and support.  worst global humanitarian crisis situation since WW2 - Iraq, South Sudan, Central African Republic. Our help needed! @KGeorgievaEU
In Duhok region of KRG there are now 600.000 displaced people - 1/2 arrived last 2 weeks. 130.000 living in schools. 145.000 outside in heat
Early morning in Erbil. Today we will focus on the refugee humanitarian challenge and what Sweden, EU and the world must do to help.
When we landed in Erbil heard that Baghdad authorities have stopped direct humanitarian relief flights to here. Unacceptable. Must change.
From the talks this evening with @KurdistanRegion PM @NBarzani  and the other representatives here.  schools in @KurdistanRegion now used for housing displaced persons. But must be back to school use soon for all children.
Dinner in Erbil with @KurdistanRegion PM @NBarzani. Retaking of Mosul dam from ISIL today seen as a important move. Huge humanitarian needs.
Press conference in Baghdad with Iraq Acting FM Sharistani and @KGeorgievaEU. Focus on political process.  always enjoy coming to dynamic Erbil in KRG. One of the oldest cities in the world. But circumstances now are tragic and challenging.
Now we are wheels up from Baghdad after the interesting talks here. 49 degrees. Heading for Erbil and dinner with KRG PM Barzani and others.
Sweden is the 4th largest provider of humanitarian aid in the world today. EU Commission @KGeorgievaEU is number two. Together EU is first.
There are now approximately 1,2 million people that have been displaced in Iraq. Huge humanitarian as well as political challenge.
After the political talks in Bagdhad we will proceed to Erbil to also assess the humanitarian needs in more detail. EU is helping.
We will see Iraq Acting FM Sharistani, President Masum and Parliament Speaker al-Jibouti when we arrive in Baghdad.
On the way to Baghdad and Erbil together with EU humanitarian commissioner @KGeorgievaEU. Bring political  support and humanitarian help.
Soon wheels up from Turku - Åbo in Swedish - after stimulating and wide ranging informal talks between Finnish and Swedish friends.
The beauty of summer in the Nordic world. Archipelagos of the Baltic Sea.  now wheels up for Finland for informal discussions on bilateral as well as wider European issues. Always important and enjoyable.
Great to buy some good books at entire street with outdoor book sale in Stockholm today.  good will on both sides an agreement with Iran on nuclear issues is still possible. Not easy, but not  Reinfeldt warned that increased strife and uncertainty in Middle East and Eastern Ukraine will impact us. Refugees. Economy. Defence.
Start of election campaign. Soon listen to PM Fredrik Reinfeldt on how to continue the success story of Sweden. And on challenges ahead.
Back in Stockholm. Torrential rain. Thunder. Looks like final days of most things.
Soon wheels up from Brussels and the important meeting here. Also had time with @cnni and @cnbcworld interviews on Ukraine and Iraq.
People seem to be desperately fleeing in all directions from so-called People’s Republics in Eastern Ukraine. Gangsterism destroyed economy.
EU sets up a humanitarian air bridge to northern Iraq as part of our response to the grave challenge of the country. Sweden will take part.
My remarks to the media, as usual, on the key issues of the EU crisis meeting in Brussels  congratulate India on its Independence Day. Here the address by President Mukherjee.
Very early departure for Brussels for EU crisis meeting this summer of crisis 2014. Will be there lunchtime.
UK journalist observe Russian armoured forces entering Ukraine. Hardly humanitarian. Grave situation.  resignation of Iraq PM Maliki is welcomed and should pave the way for a more inclusive government credible to all  remarkable: total EU support to Greece through EFSF is now 142 billion Euro. And country has turned the  Yes, certainly, but difference between us since 1814 is that Norway was attacked and occupied by Hitler, while we were not.
Today it's 200 years since Moss peace treaty between Norway and Sweden. Our country has had the luck of peace since.  as if rescue mission planned for Mount Sinjar in Iraq is no longer considered necessary. But general IS threat certainly still there.
@SurkovRussia More available.
Horrible news with death of Brazil presidential candidate Eduardo Campos. Our deepest condolences.  No, I don’t smoke. But you seems to do, which is not good for your health. Just a piece of friendly advice. Needed these days.
Ukrainian sovereignty as well as @icrc neutrality has to be respected in humanitarian aid to Eastern Ukraine.  EU FM emergency meeting in Brussels on Friday. Good. Iraq, Gaza, Libya and Ukraine/Russia will be on the agenda. This is August 2015.
In Rab’a square a year ago Egypt authorities carried out one of largest mass killings of demonstrators in our times.  is the day when in 1961 the Communist rolled out the barbed wire and built the shameful wall in Berlin.  soon be on @AJEnglish to discuss the challenges facing Iraq in the middle of its profound crisis. Humanitarian, political, security.
So far Russia has sent weapons, tanks and fighters across border into Eastern Ukraine. And produced death, destruction and despair.
Important designation today of Dr. Hayder al-Abadi as new PM of Iraq. Hope truly representative government can be formed very soon.
The neutrality, impartiality and independence of @ICRC operations in Ukraine is of key importance.  President Poroshenko and @icrc head @PMaurerICRC agree on modalities for aid to Eastern Ukraine.  Pres Barroso warned Russia against any interventions in Ukraine, under any pretext, including  with @KurdistanRegion PM @NBarzani on what more can be done to prevent genocide and help also Yezidi and Christian IDP’s. Urgent.
Baltic countries are unfortunately used to Russian trade measures. Not unduly concerned with the latest ones.  för alla svenska medborgare som vill rösta utomlands i viktiga valet 14 september!  message of congratulations to new Turkey President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. With some key messages in it as well.  to @nmladenov on very critical situation in Baghdad. We must support President Fuad Masoum and his efforts to set up new government.
Our sincere thanks to @KGeorgievaEU, Italy and France for critical help with fighting huge forest fire.  by news from Bagdad tonight. Constitution must be respected. Inclusive and representative new government must be formed.
Critically important today that leaders of Iraq form a broad-based government that is acceptable to all parts of their society. @UNIraq
Here a look at the three contenders in today's important election in Turkey.  election in Turkey today after heated election campaign. Well, sometimes over-heated.   should have mentioned also the important role of @OCHAIraq in helping in the acute crisis.  by the work of @ICRC and @PMaurerICRC for their work in and stance on Eastern Ukraine. Help could be channeled through them.
Tonight a Russian “humanitarian” attempt to make incursion into Eastern Ukraine was averted.  reports of Russia moving towards “humanitarian” intervention in Eastern Ukraine. Precursor to full-scale intervention. Grave.
If @PrimeMinisterGE does not want to listen to the best friends of his country in EU that’s his choice. We take note. @LinkeviciusL
It is of course key that US and other activities in Iraq are undertaken only at the request of the authorities in Baghdad.
ISIL’s acts of terror against the Yazidis and other minorities bear all the warning signs and hallmarks of genocide.
I welcome all help to Mount Sinjar as  well as US readiness for air strikes against ISIL.  By all coordinated political strategy needed.
Will be with @richardquest on @CNN at 2200CET tonight. On Russia strange food sanctions against itself.
I welcome urgent meeting by UN Security Council on political, humanitarian and human rights crisis in Iraq. @UNIraq
The Chaldean Patriarch of Babylon appeals to the UN for help in desperate situation for Christians in Iraq.  would have been an uproar of indignation if EU had banned food exports to Russia. Inhuman, it would have been said.
South Sudan is now on the brink of a humanitarian catastrophe and a protracted internal conflict. True tragedy.  is rising international concern over the policies of revenge in Georgia. Damages the country.   catastrophe for the Christians of Iraq as ISIL terrorists advance. World interest to defeat the ISIL threat.  Putin has decided that Russia's consumers should have more expensive and less quality food. Great idea...??  terror of ISIL must be sharply condemned by everyone. And we must search for ways to stop it and help people.  authorities deviate from European path in using justice system for revenge. Does damage to the country.   as if it was the Better Together side that came out best from Scotland TV debate yesterday.   salute Germany for cancelling important defence training facility contract with Russia. An example also for others, one might add.
@SarahWaltonNews Well, had to follow it mainly on blogs and tweets, sorry to say. STV live stream worked very badly.
When Russia speaks of “humanitarian mission” in Ukraine there is reason to be suspicious. Too many battalion battle groups assembled.
Could follow some of the TV debate this evening on Yes or No to Scotland independence. We are all better together.  are grateful for EU help from France, Italy, Spain and Greece to help fight huge forest fire in Sweden. @KGeorgievaEU coordinating.
I was happy to see that also @KGeorgievaEU has been renominated for to EU Commission. She will be an important asset to @JunckerEU.
Important remarks by Germany President Joachim Gauck at WW1 commemoration in Liege earlier today.   EU @KGeorgievaEU and Italy @FedericaMog for help with firefighting planes! Needed.  the 4th of August 2014. And there is a war raging in Europe.  conflict and death toll between Azerbaijan and Armenia over Nagorno-Karabakh adds to an already most volatile security environment.
The day a century ago when the lights went out all over Europe - and were not lit up again until 1989. A day to remember and to reflect on.
It is appalling to see IDF shelling against or close to the one @UNRWA school after the other in Gaza.  We have routine that we follow. Diplomatic contacts but no public comment. Same versus all countries. US as well as Russia.
A much deeper but by no means easy dialogue with Turkey must be high on the EU list of priorities. Worth reading.  warmly welcome the annulment by Uganda’s Constitutional Court of the notorious Anti-Homosexuality Act. A victory for human rights.
We must use our political energies to prevent @markhleonard from being right. Consequences would be grave.   outbreaks can be contained. Chains of transmission can be broken. Together, we must do  it’s 70 years since beginning of the momentous @Warsaw1944 uprising.   скасовує режим вільної торгівлі з Молдовою і готується зробити це і з Україною. Очевидно загострення економічної війни.
Россия отменяет свободную торговлю с Молдавией и готовится поступить так и с Украиной. Очевидно обострение экономической войны
Russia is revoking free trade with Moldova and preparing to do the same also with Ukraine. Its economic warfare is obviously escalating.
Fourth: Gaza must become the window of Palestine to the Mediterranean and its port to the world. Secured links with the West Bank built.
Third: Gaza governance must be part of Palestine. PA responsible for security and demilitarisation. Free, fair and open elections.
Second: Israel security must be protected. International mechanism on Gaza boundaries to stop weapons etc. And assure movement and access.
First: Blockade must end. It has fuelled the Hamas tunnel economy and destroyed honest living by honest people. Counterproductive and wrong.
In Swedish earlier today I outlined the four principles fundamental for sustainable Gaza solution.   welcome 72 hr Gaza ceasefire. But must lead to broader political solution. I outlined four principles earlier.  piece from @ecfr on all the possible global consequences of the Ukraine crisis.  has now renominated @MalmstromEU as EU Commissioner. Done splendid job on difficult portfolio. An asset to EU and the Commission.
Turning points in Russia? Perhaps first 2003 with Khodorkovsky case. And 2012 with regime reaction to Bolotnaya  demonstrations. Others?
We have reached a turning point in relations btw Russia and the West. This is not what we wished two decades ago. But Russia turned away.
Today another UN school serving as a shelter has been hit in gross violation of international law. @ValerieAmos.  the ECDC in Stockholm is closely monitoring the outbreak of Ebola in West Africa. Global cooperation key.  @EBRD support to enhancing Odessa as a grain export port for the future. A great European city.  on substantial EU new measures against Russia because of its continued violation of  humanitarian situation in Gaza is getting increasingly desperate. We repeat our calls for an immediate ceasefire.  so called Deputy PM of rebels in Donetsk Antyufeyev first acquired fame in the failed pro-Soviet coup attempt in Riga in January 1991.
Sweden ranked number three in Global Innovation Index for 2014. Switzerland and UK ahead. Europe doing OK.  total breakdown of law and order and a reign of fear and terror been inflicted by armed groups in eastern  Mubarak to all concerned - wishing you a happy and peaceful Eid holiday.
A century ago Vienna declared war on Serbia. The summer of Europe was over. The descent into dark 20th century began.  that clampdown in Russia has now also reached @EchoMskRu. Was always a voice of an open and interesting Russia.  is what is normally refereed to as acts of war by one state against another. Here Russia against Ukraine.  must strongly condemn also the destruction of sacred places by the IS in Mosul and other places.   now Russia seems to be thinking of banning McDonald's. Guess they expect US to collapse.  Perhaps.   also a joint statement on the critical situation in Libya. Must not be neglected in our multitude of crisis.  jail terms in Russia for organisers of large Bolotnaya 2012 demonstrations against President Putin.  of MH17 continue to arrive in the Netherlands. A nation in sorrow and anger.  Australia FM @JulieBishopMP is handling the MH17 tragedy and crime in a very impressive way.  Our deep sympathy.  is every reason to be deeply concerned over the consequences of chaos in Libya. Adds to the exposure of Europe in several respects.
Talked to Norway FM @borgebrende on Middle East and Gaza situation as well as terror threats  against Norway now.
There will now be an EU ban of both trade with and investments in occupied Crimea and Sevastopol. Hope US and others will follow.
New listing of different restrictive measures by EU against Russian aggressors. Further sharp measures coming.  destruction in Beit Hanoun in northern Gaza. Looks worse than after 2008/09 war. Horrible.  salute US SecState John Kerry for his efforts to achieve ceasefire and solution over Gaza fighting. He has our support.
Israel decision to reject ceasefire highly regrettably. But efforts to stop rockets, bombs and blockade must continue. Killing must stop.
Congratulations to @jokowido2 and to Indonesia for a well-conducted election, securing peace and development in the region.
One key Russian commanders in Eastern Ukraine was evidently active with war crimes already in Bosnia in  from @UNRWA says three times as many displaced in Gaza as during 2008/2009 conflict.  Cease fire imperative.  situation for minorities - Christian and others - in IS-areas of Iraq. Good that @UnIraq has focus.  and productive global web conference with @OurInternetGCIG commission. Planning meetings in Seoul and Ottawa during the autumn.
Now Russia is stepping up also the trade war against Ukraine. Follows drastic measures against Moldova.  elections in Ukraine necessary. Need for new democratic mandate. But must not erode responsibility for immediate economic decisions.
I warmly welcome election of Fouad Masum Hawrami as new President of Iraq. Should pave way for inclusive and broadly based government.
At last some dignity to some of those so brutally killed with MH17.  up from Brussels after two days of equally intense and important meetings here.  Most challenging strategic situation for Europe.
Lithuania introduced its coming Euro coins here in Brussels today. Good luck!  that Russia would de-escalate after MH17 tragedy and crime seems to have been blown out of the sky. Heavy arms flow said to continue.
We’ll, not long ago a Putin advisor talked publicly about actively establishing “no fly zone” over Eastern Ukraine. Aggression continues.
Of course the MH17 tragedy and crime dominates our EU-ASEAN meeting as it gets underway.  the occasion of seeing new UK Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond before start of the rest of today's meetings.  Brussels day. But it could be far worse than starting with breakfast with @MalmstromEU. Certainly much to talk about these days.
Yes, I think Europe has now woken up. It's different after MH17.  is alarming when major also European airlines are suspending flights to Tel Aviv out of fear of rocket attacks. These must stop.
A day of constant meeting in Council building in Brussels. But progress on policy on all issues under consideration.  discussions this afternoon, all Eastern Partnership countries are looking forward to the next summit in Riga in less than a year.
Now EU FM’s and FM from the Eastern Partnership countries will listen to assessment of Ukraine FM @PavloKlimkin.
We are appalled  by the human cost of the Israeli military operation in Shuja’iyya. And condemn the loss of hundreds of civilian lives.
Deep sorrow, but also increasing anger, characterised today’s EU FM’s meeting after the tragedy and crime of MH17.
Sweden is ready to provide additional support to Moldova in order to help the country deal with the new Russia trade sanctions.
Today we will formally establish the EU Advisory Mission for Civilian Security Sector Reform Ukraine (EUAM Ukraine).  started the meeting of EU FM’s with a minute of silence for all the victims of the tragedy and crime of MH17. A long minute of silence.
I was clear on the challenges we are now facing in my remarks before start of EU FM's meeting today.   my Brussels day with breakfast with my @EPP FM colleagues. And then another coordinating breakfast with Nordic and Baltic FM’s.
I see that Russia MoD now implies that a Ukraine Su25 shot down MH17. That’s a number of bridges too far in terms of credibility.
Correction: September 1983 KAL007 press conference in Moscow was by Soviet CGS Marshal Nikolai Ogarkov.
Landed in Brussels on this National Day of Belgium. Congratulations!
There are those who remember press conference where Soviet Ministry of Defence denied everything concerning shooting down of KAL007.
Soon wheels up for Brussels and two days of meetings there. EU FM’s tomorrow with Russia/MH17/Ukraine and Gaza in obvious focus.
Our staff in Jerusalem and Amman were able to help a further 31 Swedish citizens to leave Gaza.
Started this day with interview with @CNBCWorld on Russia destabilisation policies against Ukraine.
@owenil Ja. Distinkt. Inte så dåligt med lite pepparrot.
UN reports a “sharp increase in Palestinian casualties” in Gaza. Nearly 70% are civilians. Ceasefire imperative.  war: Russia government agencies try to change even Wikipedia.   true tragedy: some of the victims of the barbarous act of shooting down MH17.  tries to terrorise the remaining Christians of Mosul to flee or convert. Gross violation of their human rights.  part of Palestine needs a comprehensive solution covering security, access and governance. EU should be ready to help.
Well, of course, this is easy stuff for some local ladies allegedly upset by Kiev policies...  signs of coverup activities on MH17 shooting down. But we will not rest until all facts are established.  where is now the SA11 system that most likely shot down MH17? Still where it was? Or withdrawn to Russia? Critical question.
Today Georgia ratified Association and DCFTA agreement with EU, and provisional implementation will start September 1st. Congratulations!
Those responsible, directly and indirectly, for the shooting down of MH17 must be identified, apprehended and brought to justice.
Talked to friend and Netherlands FM Frans Timmermans to express condolences and discuss the way forward.  deep condolences to Malaysia PM @NajibRazak and to all relatives of the victims of this horrible crime.  is no sustainable solution to the Gaza crisis without allowing free access to and from the enclave for all peaceful goods and people.
@UrbanAhlin Was Su-15 interceptor planes with missiles. Under strict ground control.
Also Hamas must now urgently agree to a mutual ceasefire. Israel ground incursion into Gaza will only bring further suffering.
Heavily incriminating intercept of Russian speaking persons talking immediately after downing. Released by Kiev.  separatists seems to have claimed to have shoot down other aircrafts in the region today.  have been signs of Russia supplying separatist also with fairly advanced surface-to-air systems recently. Horrible.
Absolutely horrible with Malaysia airlines probably shot down over separatist area of Eastern Ukraine. Follows downing of Ukraine aircraft.
Whatever else we might think, Turkey PM Erdoğan is taking significant steps in key Kurdish peace process.   is evidently preparing to escalate economic warfare against Moldova and other countries with EU Agreements.  addition to new sanctions against Russia EU will now also take measures to restrict any investments in Crimea.  substantially adds to its sanctions against Russia. Rosneft is a noticeable addition to the list.  European Think Tank of the Year goes to @CarnegieEurope! Also well deserved.
Congratulations to @ECFR for being awarded UK International Think Tank of the Year by @prospectuk. Well deserved.
Today also important donors conference in Brussels to help Bosnia and Serbia after the devastating floods.  Factsheet Ukraine July 2014  see that @JunckerEU in his program yesterday called for next EU High Representative to be “a strong and experienced player”.
I’m deeply worried by developments in Libya. Profoundly affecting the security also of EU. Both UN and EU must focus on what can be done.
Russia Deputy PM @DRogozin claims that  “every stone, every square metre of land soaked with Russian blood is ours”.  We need to take note.
There is little doubt that Russia is now sending heavy weapons and men into separatist held area of Ukraine. EU must react strongly.
Congratulations to @JunckerEU for election as a Commission President. Good that he puts the digital single market very high on his agenda.
Amazing things you can find in the local stores in Donetsk these days. Or are they possibly from somewhere else...  is wrong to close the door to any new EU members next five years. If Iceland changes its mind again we should have an open door to them.
In his speech @JunckerEU was right in recalling the horrors of a Europe within a Euro. The common currency does protect us from that.
I will truly miss @WilliamJHague as a competent, experienced and credible voice among us EU FM’s. This is a time when experience is needed.
I hope last issues in Iran nuclear talks can be bridged. We certainly don’t need yet another conflict in the region.  welcome UN Security Council resolution which also allows delivery of aid to people in Syria by most direct  interview with @FareedZakaria on @CNN here in complete transcript.  to France on this its Bastille Day. I’m certain the parade on Champs-Élysées was as impressive as ever.
93 Swedish citizens have now been successfully evacuated from Gaza to Jordan. Great work by Ministry and UN personnel.
There are different ways of keeping in touch with the pulse of the world. Streaming battle from Brazil.  have to confess that this is thrilling. And I’m in favour of Germany. Let’s hope.
With international attention elsewhere numerous signs that Russian destabilising activities in easternmost Ukraine are escalating.
UN reports that 70% of Palestinian fatalities since 7 July (89) have been civilians, of whom 30% (27) are children.  we strongly urge an immediate cease-fire in the conflict we are doing our utmost to help Swedish citizens to leave Gaza.
Preview of my @CNN interview with @FareedZakaria on Ukraine which will air in full later today.  and grave reports of regular Russian forces entering parts of Ukraine territory. Must be verified. Would be serious escalation.
I welcome agreement on a thorough audit of the votes in Afghanistan president elections. Credibility of the process in everyone’s interest.
Beautiful morning by the Adriatic as we continue the #CF2014 EU enlargement discussions here.  Population pyramid of Niger. 60% of population 15 years or younger.  must never be forgotten. It remains imperative that those responsible are brought to justice.  dinner with the FM's of Croatia, Serbia and Kosovo. Truly remarkable if you know the recent history here.  Balkans have high unemployment and low new job creation. Requires structural reforms. Risk of many new Tuzla’s otherwise. #CF2014
Labour force participation in Western Balkans is 46%. In EU it’s 64% and that’s considered too low. Much to do for us all! #CF2014
Of course completely out of the question with Russia veto on EU relations with Ukraine. But revealing attempt.  strengthens sanctions over situation over situation in Eastern Ukraine.   in Western Balkans must focus on structural reforms. High unemployment. Low job creation. Low labour force participation. #CF2014
Also worrying that statements by Jean Claude Juncker have been very cool on enlargement as task for next five years. #CF2014
Worrying that enlargement doesn’t figure at all in the Strategic Agenda for next years adopted by the European Council at its June meeting.
EU integration focus of discussions here in Dubrovnik. Key for driving reforms and securing democracy. #CF2014  urge a rapid ceasefire between Israel and the Palestine groups. No one winning. Innocent civilians on both sides are suffering.
My trip from Washington via Frankfurt, Split, Zagreb and an abundance of confusion has now, actually, brought me to Dubrovnik. #CF2014
Latest news: perhaps heading back towards Dubrovnik. Or somewhere else. Life is a circus. #CF2014
@IKopric Yes. Certainly remember Ron Brown. That’s why we landed in Split. But why we where then taken to Zagreb defies explanation.
Drama continues. Now Croatia Airlines says that they just must change crew. Very nice of them to take us all on this ride… #CF2014
Got worse! After taking off from Split, Croatia Airlines just turns and takes us to Zagreb. Not particularly decent behaviour. #CF2014
Well, I was supposed to go to Dubrovnik and #CF2014, but suddenly find myself at Split airport instead. This remains a region of surprises.
Nearly 500 persons have been killed as a result of pro-Russian armed action in Easternmost Ukraine. Should be unacceptable  in our Europe.
Back in Europe at gigantic Frankfurt air hub. Where worlds meet. But soon off from here.  Washington with Dubrovnik and Croatia Forum 2014 as the next destination.    video of the entire Congressional Gold Medal Ceremony for Raoul Wallenberg.
   over Waleed Abu Al Khair’s sentence. Disturbing that KSA stretches anti-terror &amp; cybercrime laws to curtail freedom of expression.
A very memorable moment as Nina Lagergren receives the Congressional Gold Medal for Raoul Wallenberg.  will do our utmost to support Staffan de Mistura in his new UN Syria mandate. The war and the suffering must end.
I spoke in honour of Raoul Wallenberg at the luncheon in Congress before the start of official ceremony in Rotunda.  it’s 70 years since Raoul Wallenberg arrived in Budapest, eventually to save many many thousands of Jews from the Holocaust.
Did interview also with @CNN based on my speech on Ukraine and Russia yesterday. Trying to chart road ahead.
Rockets and bombs against innocent civilians in Israel and Gaza must be stopped immediately. Road back to peace talks must be sought.
Starting my day here in slightly cloudy Washington with meetings at IMF. On European issues in general and Ukraine in particular.
Today is Raoul Wallenberg day as he is bestowed the Congressional Gold Medal for his outstanding bravery.   worried by tension over audit of election results in Afghanistan. All should respect necessary audit process.  a pleasure talk to Australia FM @JulieBishopMP.  Washington to Canberra. We have deepened an already good relationship.
Swedish companies create jobs in all 50 US states. TTIP would boost jobs further. New report from @SwedeninUSA.  rainbow over Georgetown tonight. Any particular meaning to that?  wonderful to see Nina Lagergren - sister of Raoul Wallenberg - at the reception at the Swedish Embassy here in Washington this evening.
Here the full text of my remarks on Russia and Ukraine at @AtlanticCouncil earlier today.   NSA Susan Rice in White House. We followed global drama between Germany and Brazil with fascination. Also some other issues.
Continuous talk here in Washington on different European challenges. Now meetings with National Security Staff on primarily Ukraine.
Lunch at our magnificent Embassy by the Potomac river. Flags of Sweden, EU and Iceland flying outside.  Brussels meeting today on coordinating international support to Ukraine.  in Washington. Starting at @AtlanticCouncil with talk on "Facing a Revisionist Russia". On the web as well.  to @vickyford and @AnnamariaCB on given leadership of important @EPSingleMarket committee.  reading: Prince Turki Al Faisal on the prospects for peace in the  Middle East.  @AtlanticCouncil @FredKempe Thanks! looking forward to be there tomorrow.
Important that audits proposed by UN is undertaken and respected before final Afghan election result is there.  @MartinSelmayr @ClaraMartinezAl @NatashaBertaud Good luck! We need a strong and future-oriented team to take us forward!
And now off for a couple of days in Washington. Wide ranging talks on challenges ahead.  Wednesday the US Congressional Gold Medal will be bestowed to Raoul Wallenberg. I look forward to the event.   my BBC Hard Talk interview. Now on Heathrow waiting for flight to Washington.  Shevardnadze was a big personality of our time. His December 1990 resignation should not be forgotten today.  morning in London. On my way to @BBCNews for "Hard Talk" interview. Expect state of Europe to be in focus.
On a slow train through rural England. A delightful Sunday. The world seems far away.  risks descending into 'Syria-like chaos' if its political class fails to unite and agree on a  arrest of Mr Gigi Ugulava in Tbilisi seems to run contrary to previous commitment to the rule of law.   Visby and #Almedalen  after inspiring and eventful days here. And now summer seems to have finally arrived to the Baltic world.
Meet Finland DefMin @callehaglund as he arrived in Visby and #Almedalen  Would be great. But unfortunately I’m off to an event in English countryside.
Today FM Reinfeldt welcomes new Finland PM and old friend @alexstubb to Stockholm for talks. EU future in obvious focus. Also bilateral.
PM Reinfeldt opens his speech at #Almedalen on challenges for Sweden in the years ahead. Huge crowd listening.  offer our profound condolences to the family of Palestinian teenager murdered in East Jerusalem. Escalation of violence must be avoided.
Most important marathon negotiations with Iran on the nuclear issue have now started in Vienna. Agreement ought to be possible.
An abundance of Brzezinski's as we walk to our strategic dialogue in the cathedral ruin at #Almedalen tonight.  for early dinner with @zbig Brzezinski. And then we will discuss the strategic challenges of today at #Almedalen evening event.
In the midst of all debates, discussions and meetings a truly beautiful day in #Almedalen.  That’s the intratribe dynamics, I would guess.
Well, I'm off the annual tribal jamboree of self appointed thinkers and talkers. But it's fun and useful. #Almedalen  now for the Rolling Stones concert here in Stockholm. Unique occasion. Living history. Great music.
Petro Poroshenko and Carl Bildt discussed the issue of Donbas and the implementation of the EU Association Agreement   is the start of the Italian Presidency of the EU. Thanks to Greece for job well done during last six months!  і конструктивна розмова з Президентом України. Домовилися про необхідність взаємного та скерованого перемір’я на Сході
And now wheels up from Kiev. Heading home after timely and forward-looking Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine journey after signing EU agreements.
Long and constructive talk with Ukraine President Petro Poroshenko. We agreed on the need for a mutual and monitored ceasefire in the East.
Separatists in parts of regions of Eastern Ukraine are now holding app 190 hostages. Reports also today of new hostages taken.
@FrancoFrattini Sorry, Franco, but the ceasefire was never accepted by the separatist. And Moscow refused to close border as EU demanded.
Large numbers of heavy weapons have entered Eastern Ukraine from Russia. Clearly incompatible with European and international norms and laws
During its ceasefire Ukraine lost 31 soldiers since separatist in the East never accepted it. New ceasefire must be mutual and monitored.
Lovely summer weather in delightful Kiev. The golden domes of the Lavra by the Dnjepr.  talks with Ukraine PM Yatsenyuk. Economy in focus. Turning the country around. Key reforms on the way.  from Tbilisi to Kiev these days is not a straight affair as it used to be.  up from Tbilisi. Heading for Kiev and talks there. A dramatic day after Russia not meeting EU demands and end of cease-fire.
Soon about to leave Tbilisi and Georgia. But media here this morning reflects the good day of talks we had yesterday.  truly saddened by the news that the three kidnapped Israeli boys have been found murdered. An appalling act.
Talked with Ukraine FM @PavloKlimkin about the situation on Ukraine-Russia border. We will see each other in Kiev tomorrow.
The key demand put by the EU heads of state and government has not been meet.
EU was clear in demanding that there is should be the return to the Ukrainian authorities of three border check points taken by separatist.
Always these selfies these days. But no complaints on the group.  continued reforms World Bank sees Georgia growth rate of 5.5 % 2014–2017. And EU agreement will certainly help as well.
Meet media after talks with Georgia FM Maia Panjikidze. Next item of the day dinner. Always special in Tbilisi.  warmly congratulate Georgia PM Irakli Garibashvili on the signing of the EU Agreement on Friday.  good to see also old friends Davit Bakradze and Giga Bokeria. Democratic opposition key part of a any vibrant democracy.
Started day in Tbilisi with lunch and discussion with Georgia President Giorgi Margvelashvili.  to be a fairly straight flight passing by Crimea. Now big detour over Turkey to avoid airspace over and around occupied land.
And now it’s wheels up from a most pleasant and sunny Chisinau. Heading across the Black Sea for Tbilisi in Georgia.
Breafast meeting with PM Leanca and FM Gherman before leaving Moldova. Much to do together in the years ahead.  discussion in TV @publikatv Sunday show here in Moldova on Europe prospects. Great interest.  If certified by legal Ukraine authorities import from Crimea of course works. But we don’t accept occupation.
Russia has banned all imports of wine from Moldova. Part of pressure. Belarus continues to buy and expand economic relations. Good wines.
Moldova now moves ahead with ratification of EU agreement.  Important to give stability for the future. Continuation of reforms critical.
Meeting the press after my talks with Moldova FM Gherman. Questions on the European road ahead.  up for Chisinau as first stop on my tour. Moldova has done great with reforms. But the road ahead is challenging. EU is helping.
Eastern Partnership will continue as one of the core policies of the EU. Next summit in Riga next spring will chart the coming steps.
Next days for me will be in Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine. Taking stock of challenges directly after signing of the important EU agreements.
BBC is live blogging events in Sarajevo June 28 a century ago as if it was today. Minute by minute.   rulers might have been incompetent, but ruled over a paradise compared to the horrors that followed."  there is still controversy. Here interesting on Sarajevo’s Elusive Assassin. Important issues.  still raging: monument to Gavrilo Princio unveiled yesterday in the Republika Srpska part of Sarajevo.  reflections by @timjudah1 on how this momentous day 1914 still echoes through Bosnia and the Balkans.  that there was agreement on a forward-looking strategic agenda for the EU at the meeting in Brussels today.  كريم و مبارك To all our Muslim friends  and Canada work together on many issues. Arctic Council, net future, Europe security and others. Great to have @HonJohnBaird here.
And now a nice semi-archipelago dinner with friend and Canada FM @HonJohnBaird.  to Lithuania for final green light to join Euro with start of 2015!  message from EU to Russia on effective measures to stop flows of weapons and fighters to Ukraine by Monday.  by Ukraine President Poroshenko to bring along pen made for the Vilnius Summit. Much has happened since then.  I look forward to visiting Chisinau, Tbilisi and Kiev in the next few days to discuss the road ahead. Challenges - and possibilities.
I warmly welcome the signing of historic EU Association Agreements with Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia this morning.  Brazil, Nigeria, Turkey and the US together succeeds with new UNHRC resolution defending net freedom.   interview by @camanpour with Ukraine President Poroshenko prior to important signing of the EU Agreement.  know that Canada FM @HonJohnBaird has already arrived in Stockholm, but looking forward towards seeing him for talks and dinner tomorrow.
Today Camp Northern Light in Mazar-e-Sharif was handed over to Afghan army. But our commitment to country remains.  As well, of course.
@Charress That we de facto gave up as we entered the EU in 1995. Haven’t talked about for years.
Interview with me in @zeitonline primarily on Russia and Ukraine. In German.  divorce with Britain could start decline of European Union. A more uncertain future for all. Must be avoided.  look forward to meeting and discussing with Global Commission on the Economy and Climate later today.   have now decided to start talks with NATO aiming at an agreement on Host Nation Support.
Thursday. Cabinet meeting. Some important decisions.  Discussions. Then PM Reinfeldt heads off to #EUCO in Brussels and Ypres.
For the first time in 1.600 years there are no church services in Mosul. The mosaic and richness of the Middle East is disappearing.
Military effort to quell insurgency in Iraq must be backed by political process, says UN @nmladenov.  and swift service at Schipol airport. On board and heading home!  overcharged on a distinctly overcrowded train to Amsterdam. No seats. But that's life.  air traffic control strike in Brussels. True mess. I’ll have to flee Belgium in order to have any chance to get home. Work in progress.
Leaving @NATO after Afghanistan talks here. Political, security and economic transitions this year interlinked. And they must all succeed.
Spent same time here discussing different projects for @Eurpeace as it will start its work. Will be a great asset for the future!
Highly interesting that both Belarus and Kazakhstan are now opposing Moscow threats against Ukraine. But Moscow say it doesn’t care.
Russia has not given up threatening trade measures against Ukraine because of EU links. EU must react if this  taking off for Brussels. A day there. First seeing @Eurpeace and then to @NATO for Afghanistan and other discussions.
I sincerely hope that the elections today will make a contribution to establishing stability in Libya. It is very much needed.
Warm congratulations to Thorbjørn Jagland on re-election as Secretary General of Council of Europe. Well deserved.    called the Ambassador of Egypt to the Ministry today to make clear our condemnation of the severe jail sentences of journalists.
Here my remarks on borders, Crimea, revisionism and peace at the Bosch Academy in Berlin.   key to Russia intentions is whether it stops flow of fighters  and weapons across border into Ukraine. That’s the core EU demand now.
Good that Russia President proposes Federation Council to repeal resolution on invading Ukraine. Was grave violation of international norms.
Video from Corfu 20 years ago and signing of the EU accession treaties with Sweden, Finland, Austria and Norway.  to Albania on being granted candidate status to EU today. I hope this will spur further reforms,  today we more formally welcome and congratulate @alexstubb as new PM of Finland.    einfach, Europa muss liefern." Europe must deliver. Interview in Die Welt. In German.   years ago today I signed the agreement on Sweden's accession to the EU on Corfu in Greece. A historic day.  see that I have passed 300.000 followers tonight. Most welcome! From all over the world by now.
And important as well with green light for a CSDP mission in Ukraine. Formal launch at July meeting.  strong EU support for quick formation of inclusive and credible government in Bagdad in order to isolate and defeat ISIL terrorists.
Wheels up Luxembourg after good meeting. Clear support for Ukraine peace plan. Clear messages to Russia. Clear road ahead for agreement.
Most welcome that last chemical weapon from Syria were loaded this afternoon aboard the Danish ship Ark Futura.  lunch we will discuss with UN SRSG in Iraq @nmladenov on the very difficult and dangerous situation in his part of the world.
@kamelhawwash We will be more clear also on economic relations with the illegal settlements on occupied territory there.
Today EU decided on banning any imports from Crimea not approved by Kiev.  Signals possible further measures against illegal occupation.
EU now makes clear that Russia’s threat of trade measures against countries that sign the Association Agreement/DCFTA are unjustified.
I strongly condemn Egypt court decision to send foreign journalists to jail for years for their reporting.  also technical green light for signing agreement between EU and Ukraine on Friday.  of today's meeting of EU FM's in Luxembourg. First item on agenda Ukraine FM @PavloKlimkin briefing.  Same! Very good speech on peace efforts. You have our full support.
Thought for a while that WW3 had started in Luxembourg tonight. False alarm. Was national day fireworks. Congratulations!
If this story of UK officials wanting to keep EU flag away from WW1 commemoration is true then its really bizarre.  to read full text of Ukraine President Poroshenko speech on peace in the East of the country.  wheels up for Luxembourg. Ukraine and Iraq will clearly dominate meeting of EU FM’s there tomorrow. Tonight Middle East is in my focus.
Both election rounds went very well, but new controversy on the counting of Afghan presidential election is very worrying.
Historian Margaret MacMillan sees WW1 as the defining conflict of the modern era. Triggered in Sarajevo June 28 1914.  human rights activist Ales Bialiatski has been released from jail in  to leave Berlin after constructive and inspiring visit. A dynamic and always interesting European city.  than 50 million people were forcibly displaced 2013 - more than the 45 million reported in 2012.  peace plan and cease-fire announced by Ukraine President Poroshenko today deserves the full support of us all.  sincerely hope the best for former Germany FM and good friend Guido Westerwelle. Our thoughts are with him.  midsummer in Battery Park in New York is also quite an experience, I remember. @swedennewyork  Midsummer for Dummies. Almost true.  discussion evening on the growing European and global disorders at the Bosch Academy in Berlin tonight.  of also talks in the modern Federal Chancellery building in the hearth of Berlin.  and more reports of forces entering Eastern Ukraine from Russia. Also of Russian troops now sent to these border areas with Ukraine.
Midsummer, but I am taking off for Berlin to give a speech on the lessons of 1914 and the reality of 2014 to the Bosch Stiftung there.
Talked with new Ukraine FM @PavloKlimkin on meeting also with Group of Friends in Luxembourg on Monday.
Congratulations to new Ukraine FM @pavloklimkin. Looking forward to continued contacts.
Supposed to be summer in Sweden. Looking out for signs. Limited success. Continuing.
@ADeshchytsia And thanks for good cooperation during your important period in office!
Sometimes Russia TV propaganda resorts to remarkable rude methods. Good that it’s exposed.  opposition leader Leopoldo López has today spent four months in custody. And there is still not even a trial.
It was a true pleasure to see President Carter again. Talked also about past work together in Palestine and Bosnia.  ancient Paracas textiles will be returned from Sweden to Peru. Been discussed a long time, and shows our good bilateral relations.
Our record is strong:  strongest economy for four decades and 1/4 million new jobs since 2006. But the efforts must continue.
PM Reinfeldt opens the final party leaders debate in Parliament before the summer and the September election.  meeting with Parliament both Foreign Affairs Committee and EU Committee to brief on upcoming EU foreign affairs issues.
A day with actors and observers discussing coming challenges in the East of Europe. Revisionism versus rules. Disorder versus stability.
Third EU-Russia meeting on trade with Ukraine was held in Brussels yesterday. Lots of consultations.  to counter propaganda on EU, Ukraine and Eastern Partnership - here are the facts!  Greatest of Leaders on yet another epic voyage. Wants the submarine to go higher.  we seeing stepped-up Russian economic pressure on Ukraine across the board? Signs are there.  to @JuanManSantos on being re-elected President of Colombia. The result is a strong endorsement of the peace process.
Worrying reports of Russia again sending forces to positions very close to Ukraine border. Instead all should focus on de-escalation.
Green light for EU agreements with Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova to be signed June  @ECFR paper on what also Europe can do to facilitate a nuclear deal with Iran.  round of nuclear talks with Iran starting in Vienna today. Hope there is a mutual recognition of the need for constructive compromise.
Just survived nearly five hours at IKEA looking at kitchen things. But barely, I have to confess.
Жахливий злочин сепаратистів, які збили літак на сході країни. Щирі співчуття усім постраждалим. #UnitedForUkraine
Afghans seems to have turned out to vote today in at least the same numbers as during the successful first round.  from another party, today I also congratulate @jonasgahrstore on just being elected new leader of the Norwegian Labour Party.
Warmest congratulations to @alexstubb as new National Coalition Party leader and soon PM of Finland. A modern leader for a modern country.
App a million people displaced by fighting in Iraq. Humanitarian disaster on top of grave political challenge.  crime by pro-Russian separatists with the shooting down of transport plane in Eastern Ukraine. Sincere condolence to all affected.
Voting underway in final round of Afghanistan presidential election. I hope it will go as well as first round did.  has now opened embassies in both Baku @SwedeninAZ and Yerevan @SwedeninArmenia. Presence in all Eastern Partnership countries.
Leaving Rome after vibrant and good #ECFRMeeting. Heading home.  must of course have Iraq situation on agenda of next meeting of EU FM’s. Vast both humanitarian and political issues to be addressed.
Truly beautiful day in Rome as discussions at #ECFRMeeting about to conclude. Crimea global consequences big issue.  displacement from Mosul area in Iraq according to @UNHCR. And things are getting words by the day.  appeals to Russia to engage constructively with Ukraine and to give clear evidence of de-escalating  with Ukraine FM @ADeshchytsia on ongoing effort for political solution in easternmost Ukraine. But it requires response by Moscow.
Smash-and-grab principle in international relations is a danger not only to Europe but to the entire world order. #ECFRMeeting
Important fact sheet on EU, Ukraine and Eastern Partnership. To counter misinformation and propaganda.  first panel at #ECFRmeeting on Europe's crises with also @emmabonino and @IlvesToomas. Crisis everywhere.  FM @FedericaMog opens #ECFRMeeting with sober reflection on the massive challenges we are facing in the fracturing wider Middle East.
@johanzvrskovec In all fairness I believe that we are primarily seeing the widening of the conflict in Syria. Bad enough.
Sweden is one of the few countries to have successfully used taxes to reduce environmental damage.”  to take off for Rome and #ECFRmeeting. Russia/Ukraine, Iraq and Libya certainly illustrates challenging neighbourhood for Europe.
UN Secretary General: “Terrorism must not be allowed to succeed in undoing the path towards democracy in  tomorrow I’m off to the 2014 @ecfr Annual Meeting. In Rome. Most painful.  support to Turkey as it faces the kidnapping by ISIS of its diplomatic staff and families in Mosul.   League of Arab States EU calls upon all democratic forces to work together on basis of the Iraqi Constitution.  nice day on the Baltic Sea. We visited also our HMS Sundsvall which takes part in the big Baltops 2014 exercise.  to visit Baltops 2014 - 30 ships and 52 aircraft from 14 different nations and NATO.  for cleaning, rehabilitation and repair of a total of 25.000 priority dwellings after the big Balkan floods.  with ISIS fighters taking control of Mosul in northern Iraq. A trans-state threat of magnitude risks developing in entire region.
Key and important Harpsund conclusion is need to focus on political priorities for EU next few years before addressing personnel issues.
Harpsund mini-Summit brings together four of the most competitive economies of the world. Wants all Europe to reform.  Defence orders construction and production plans for the next generation advanced submarines. Key to future Baltic Sea security.
Yesterday’s Kosovo election was a further step forward in consolidation of the country’s  @ I think it’s more taking the result into account. And then views in the European Council as well. Two in this tango.
@ArminLaschet We happen to have a Treaty that must be respected. Wide consultations necessary for good solution.
Sweden wants a politically strong and open EU committed to necessary reforms, economic competitiveness and clear regional and global role.
Mini-summit with PM's of Sweden, Germany, United Kingdom and Netherlands at Harpsund residence starting this evening.  taking off from Milan after a most enjoyable weekend in Northern Italy. Back to all the challenges!
There is increasing also international attention to the possible consequences of a breakup of Britain.   the important speech by Ukraine President Poroshenko at his inauguration yesterday.  we also have reason to follow the parliamentary elections in Kosovo.  Apart from the fact that this is quote is fake and false. Part of the disinformation war these days.
Never heard anyone say that free trade between EU and Mexico hurts US economy. Free trade agreement US/Canada/Mexico not affected.
@MarkSleboda1 @usv1980 This is a Russian threat without any either factual or formal justification or basis.
@IrinaGalushkoRT Stop being propagandist! He was democratically elected and is today formally installed.
There is absolutely no ground for Putin claim that free trade between Ukraine and EU would hurt Russia economy. Expert talks been held.
We warmly congratulate Petro Peroshenko on now being installed as President of Ukraine.  threats against Ukraine EU agreement should not be tolerated. If Russian imposes sanctions, we must be ready to sanction Russia.
Horrible but ultimately unsuccessful suicide attack against Afghan presidential candidate Abdullah Abdullah. Election campaign continues.
And here you can even listen to the national anthem of our Sweden!  today we are all, in different ways and in different places, celebrating the National Day of Sweden.  plans to introduce a new system to carry out indiscriminate mass surveillance of social media in Egypt.  it’s wheels up from Kiev. “Russia invades Donetsk” local headline here. But Kiev calmly prepares Poroshenko presidential installation.
G7 warning to Moscow: “Russia’s illegal annexation of Crimea, and actions to de-stabilize eastern Ukraine are unacceptable and must stop.”
Earlier today was also adopted the Warsaw Declaration of Freedom.  and comprehensive economic reforms linked with deep and comprehensive free trade with EU gives Ukraine historic chance for a new start!
With Ruslana on a magic evening in Kiev after day of serious talks. She sang Ukraine national anthem in Swedish!  Kiev after Warzaw. Difference in development between two countries instructive. And inspiring. #FreeTradeEurope  it’s wheels up from Warsaw. Kiev and #FreeTradeEurope next destination. Helping Ukraine to prosperity and stability key European task.
Not only those remembering the dark decades, but also the young people of Poland celebrated freedom today.  Carl Bildt helps Sweden punch above its weight."
  celebrating 25 years of freedom! #polskafree25  Obama links Gdansk 25 years ago with Maidan of today. No freedom without solidarity.  assembled in square outside Royal Castle in Warsaw for the celebrations. #polskafree25  Kiev now start of conference on free trade for Eastern Partnership. For their future prosperity. Will join later.  this June 4 of joy in Warsaw we must not forget the June 4 of tragedy in Beijing.  evening 25 yrs after historic 1989 election. Whether Ukraine Pres-elect Poroshenko or US Pres Obama was dinner star a good question.
Here my remarks at the very festive Solidarity Prize award ceremony in the Royal Palace in Warsaw this evening.  18:00 I will also make brief remarks at ceremony giving first Lech Walesa Solidarity Prize to Mustafa Dzhemilev.  discussion with young Polish diplomats together with @Martinlidegaard. #polskafree25  here in Warzaw with discussion at Polish Institute for Diplomacy together with Denmark FM @martinlidegaard.   важная конференция в Киеве о возможностях нового соглашения между ЕС и Украиной/Грузией/Молдовой. #FreeTradeEurope
Завтра важлива конференція у Києві щодо можливостей нової угоди між ЄС і Україною/Грузією/Молдовою. #InvestInFutureOfUkraine
And now it’s take off for Warsaw. Looking forward to both #SolidarityPrize and #PolskaFree25  celebrations today and tomorrow.
Important conference in Kiev tomorrow on the possibilities of new agreement between EU and Ukraine/Georgia/ look forward to a clear reform course from the new government of India. Interview with me in The Hindu.  encouraged by signs that the PKK peace process in Turkey is moving forward. Important to future of the country.  time to head for Warsaw and the great celebration of 25 years since recovery of democracy. #polskafree25  Rey Juan Carlos jugó un papel decisivo en la transición española a la democracia en los años 70. Importante para toda Europa.
King Juan Carlos played absolutely key role in Spain’s transition to democracy in the mid-1970’s. Important to all of Europe.
Had good visit by Jerzy Pomianowski from European Endowment for Democracy. Doing important work with our support.  Grant @cerlondon now also joins the debate on system for appointing new EU personalities.  new day and new week with questions in Parliament. Space activities the focus. Important for Sweden.
For all the challenges it’s facing, the election shows that “Ukraine has drawn closer as a nation.”  wonderful Copenhagen after interesting days here. Big data, Ukraine, China, global economy, EU future and much more been in focus.
Warm congratulations to @SushmaSwaraj as new Minister of External Affairs of India. We value our relations with world’s largest democracy.
Important piece on the vast resources that Russia is devoting to its new propaganda war.  to miss Shangri-La Dialogue with @chipmanj and others. But good to be able to follow parts of it on the web.   treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union has now been signed. Fine. Looks intimate.  France really deliver an advanced amphibious assault ship to Russia's Black Sea Fleet? Really?  in wonderful Copenhagen. Discussing Russia and Ukraine with Henry Kissinger and others. Strengthening Ukraine our common core policy.
Excellent new @ECFR publication on Russia’s “pivot” to Eurasia and what it really means. Worth reading.   urge Turkey to revise its internet policies. Important for democratic and European development.  after rain stopped this is the horrible situation around Brcko in Northern Bosnia. We are trying to help.  is a mess in Abkhazia. And now there are signs of serious conflict between different armed separatists in Eastern Ukraine.
Wonderful sunny day. But I'm off to Copenhagen and this years Bilderberg conference. Ukraine on agenda here as well.   President-elect Poroshenko wants to sign full agreement with the EU as soon as possible.  Certainly agree.  By no means. We discussed those issues earlier. In speech. With media. In Q&amp;A. Straightforward.
It was in 2008 that Russia by its war set up the so-called state of Abkhazia. Looks like a desperate mess by now.  Yes, for reasons I gave and everyone understood. But I meet the press before my speech and panel.
At @fxinternet discussion I stressed that freedom on and of the net is a key value and interest for us. #sif214  Cyprus Peace Dividend Revisited will be launched later today. Shows big benefits for all of united country.  with clear mandate to @euHvR to consult seriously with Parliament and governments on key EU positions.  Important decision.
Starting with cabinet meeting. Later informal cabinet with King at Royal Palace. And then, finally, to @fxinternet #SIF2014 on net issues.
If this is what Russia border control allows to leave the country and enter Ukraine conclusions are obvious.  reading: this EU election must not be the wake-up call from which Europe failed to wake up.  we were certainly most pleased to see @CanadaSweden join us all on Twitter in the interest of modern and transparent diplomacy!
Great discussions with @ourinternet all day and evening. And planned for further meetings in Seoul and Ottawa. Much to do!
Happened to see item on Sweden on Russia RT TV. Presented some obscure extreme anti-immigrant activists as true voices of country. Bizarre.
Will be a day dominated by discussions in Global Commission on Internet Governance @OurInternetGCIG. The net politics of the 21st century.
There is, of course, live streaming of the discussions at Stockholm Internet Forum all through the day.  congratulate @GrybauskaiteLT on being re-elected as President of Lithuania. Our countries are close partners on many key issues.
Did interview with @camanpour on Ukraine president election and road ahead. Stressed importance of Russia curbing destabilising activities.
A pleasure to see my friend @ShashiTharoor from India here in Stockholm. One of the only 44 Congress Party MP’s elected.
Pleased to welcome also @OECD Secretary General Angel Gurría to Stockholm and the work of @ourinternet.  with @OurInternetGCIG to visit Ericsson and CEO Hans Vestberg on emerging global networked society challenges. Enormous opportunities.
It was a true pleasure to welcome friend and Mongolia FM Luvsanvandan Bold for talks today.  observers confirm "a genuine election largely in line with international commitments" in Ukraine.   of @OurInternetGCIG Global Commission on Internet Governance arriving. As are many for Stockholm Internet Forum @fxinternet.
@AndrewDuffMEP Highly regrettable, but your contributions in the years you have served have been most important.
Clear result for Petro Poroshenko as new President is a result that’s good for Ukraine and good for Europe. Congratulations!
Well, things could have been better. We failed in mobilisation. Increase in turnout was good, but benefited fringe parties right and left.
Remarkable: Russia TV reports far-right Pravy Sektor got 37% in Ukraine’s election, not the 1% he did get.  nothing that far-right candidates are less than 1% in Ukraine election. So much for all the scare propaganda from Russian media.
“Ukraine elected Petro Poroshenko as their fifth president in vote called second independence  polls are pointing to a decisive vote for Petro Poroshenko as new President of Ukraine.  as if Sweden will be among countries where turnout will increase in EP elections. Will make me proud. Shows democratic commitment.
Reports of hardline Chechen forces from Russia being sent to Eastern Ukraine. Difficult to see this would happen without nod of approval.
Three Cabinet members and one MEP - @birgittaohlsson, @annieloof, @AnnaMariaCB - outside polling station.  utterly condemn attempts by armed groups in parts of Eastern Ukraine to prevent people from voting. Shows contempt for will of the people.
Election Day in Europe. For European Parliament in remaining 21 countries. For President in Ukraine and Lithuania. For parliament in Belgium
Despicable attack on the Jewish Museum in Brussels. An affront against the values our modern Europe represents.
From our election campaign here in Sweden a message to all the voters in Ukraine tomorrow.  big EU election appeal meeting with Fredrik Reinfeldt and Anders Borg in a sunny and warm Stockholm city.  very serious situation in flooded Balkan areas. Recovery will take time, require joint efforts and EU support.  the Czech Republic, Latvia, Malta and Slovakia EU elections today. For us last day of campaigning. Hectic and important.
Worth noting that Russia Deputy PM @drogozin is on an official visit to Damascus these days. Unlikely to be there to make peace.
"Carl Bildt: Markets will cause Russia more pain than sanctions."
  great student team organising the discussions on Europe at Gothenburg University!  now we are soon taking off from Gothenburg after a day of intense West Coast campaigning for the EU election. Hot day in every respect.
Ukraine’s path towards visa liberalisation is moving ahead according to @malmstromEU. Reforms moving country forward.  visit to Port of Gothenburg - the key gateway of trade to and from Scandinavia.  the train to Gothenburg together with @AnnaMariacb Another day with EU campaign.   urge an immediate return to civilian government in Thailand, a restoration of democracy, and respect for human rights and  freedoms.
Exit polls in the Netherlands shows gains for pro-Europeans and losses for anti-Europeans. Against expectations - and most welcome.
Talking the train to Gothenburg. Day of EU campaigning and discussions there. But also other visits.
Russia tropp withdrawals from Ukraine Border welcome, but invasion mandate from Federation Council should also be annulled.
Answering questions on EU with Minister of Finance Anders Borg in Stockholm city center.  happy to see Belarus democrat @ASannikov on visit to Stockholm. We remain engaged for his country.
Campaign day in Stockholm. Wonderful warm and sunny day. But starting with cabinet meeting and urgent foreign policy issues. Then off again…
“Det är allvar nu”. Skriver med Anders Borg om EU-valet.  we are reminded of the fact that the situation in Northern Mali remains challenging and difficult.  taking off from Halmstad after most inspiring three days of EU campaigning in Southern Scandinavia. Tomorrow same but in Stockholm.
I warmly welcome the adoption of the Memorandum of Peace and Concord by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. A good step.  campaign in full swing in Halmstad! Now off to talk at the university here as well.  had to take care of a tree at the Anti Aircraft Regiment of Halmstad as well. Some water needed.  with rising numbers of displaced persons in Ukraine. @unhcr talks of 10.000 already.  Swedish aid of course coming to help with Balkan situation. Here to Belgrade yesterday.  nations of the Balkans also coming together in helping each other in difficult days.  in Bosnia are coming together help each other with the catastrophic flooding. And EU assisting strongly.  evening in most enjoyable Lund. Great interest in EU issues. Tomorrow I’m continuing to Halmstad. Where I spent my early years.
@LenaGothberg Kommer till Göteborg på fredag!
@IngridTidvall Kul att jag kunde komma förbi! #pedagogiskpub
Full house at University of Lund @upflund for EU discussions this evening. Most questions around Ukraine and Russia.  only a week to this years Stockholm Internet Forum @fxinternet #InternetFreedom  sky has cleared. Took the train over Öresund to Malmö. Will meet students @ufmalmo on EU issues.  my day by visiting Maersk and discussing globalisation and world trade prospects. Truly global company.  must resolve its political conflict by democratic means. We urge full respect for human rights also in today’s difficult situation.
Copenhagen has more or less disappeared. A morning with very heavy fog.   the tide beginning to turn against the separatist in Eastern Ukraine? Small signs are there. But Kiev must pursue with care and wisdom.
Truly catastrophic flooding in Bosnia and Serbia. EU help of great importance!  great dinner at Copenhagen University. Half of Denmark seemed to be there. Much was said about everything.  discussion with @lykkefriis and many more at Copenhagen University on lessons of 1914 and European crisis today.  off to Copenhagen. Will spend three days discussing Europe in this wider southern Scandinavian region. Two countries but one future.
Sweden has the highest employment rate of all EU economies. And increased since 2009. Successful policies.  I visited informally the operations HQ of the ongoing Swedish air and maritime exercise.  starting my day with two discussions in our Parliament. Developments in the Middle East in focus of the questions I will answer.
Later today I will be at Copenhagen University and discuss European challenges a century after 1914.  facts about how Russia TV is using false information in its reporting from Ukraine.   Is that an excuse for Stalin and the deportations?
@terbleu Most certainly. Been to Erbil and Ramallah numerous times. And to Crimea and the Tatars.
@LolliDiMe @ I have been visiting them and their leaders a number of times in Crimea. Bet you haven’t…
Interesting. Is it a myth that sanctions took Iran to the nuclear talks? Yes, other factors more important.  it’s 70 years since Stalin deported all Crimea Tatars. Russian authorities have forbidden all manifestations.  Sweden is helping Bosnia and Serbia through the EU Civil Protection to deal with the flood disaster.   saddened by also the loss of life in the floods in Bosnia and Serbia.  TV journalists are not the same. Here in beautiful Ukrainian national clothes.  pleasure to meet again with the dedicated and hardworking staff at our Embassy in Kiev.  meeting on Boko Haram in Paris today. Our full support. #BringBackOurGirls  up from Kiev after another important visit. Helping with democracy, stability and reforms in this keyEuropean country. Heading home.
Together with PM @yatsenyukAP and FM @ADeshchytsia we celebrated Europe Day in Ukraine. Our common future.  our talks today Ukraine PM @yatsenyukAP and myself also visited the impressive Arsenal art museum.  time for a quick visit also to the Lavra complex of churches and monasteries in Kiev. A European treasure.  Economy Minister @PavloSheremeta to Kyiv School of Economics to discuss Ukraine reform challenges. Huge work ahead for new start!
Congratulations also to my friend @ShashiTharoor for his good election result in spite of landslide against Congress party in India.
Today we warmly congratulate Norway on its national day and 200 year anniversary of its groundbreaking constitution.  decisive and impressive win for BJP and @narendramodi in India election. I congratulate and wish the new government all success.
Intense political talks throughout the evening here in Kiev. Tomorrow, among other things, I’ll celebrate Europe Day with PM @YatsenyukAP.
Sunny day in beautiful Kiev. My presence does not go unnoticed by the media here. Emphasis is on political talks.  UN human rights report clearly refutes Russian propaganda - and rise serious concerns on Crimea.  old Swedish church in Gammalsvenskby now used by the Ukrainian Orthodox Church as well. We had a very good talk.  blev en fin stund inte minst med de många minnen som de äldre damerna i Gammalsvenskby kunde berätta.  in Kiev for political talks here today and tomorrow. Support for Ukraine as it moves towards presidential election May 25.
The old Swedish village in Southern Ukraine still here. Moved from Estonia in late 18th century. Tragic history.  is worried by the semi-hostile takeover bid by Pfizer against AstraZeneca. Important industry for our country.  by the mighty Dnjepr. Heading to the old Swedish settlement here. From a modern Swedish investment.  will never recognise illegal Russia annexation of Crimea. Intl  law clear: state integrity must be respected.  was sorry to hear that former Belgium PM Jean-Luc Dehaene has passed away. He helped us much in our EU negotiations in the early 90’s.
Today we also had time for a quick visit to where the new checkpoints versus Crimea under Russia occupation are.  lively discussions with local representatives and business in Kakhovka on prospects and problems ahead.  at Swedish investments in wind power just by Crimea in Southern Ukraine. 120 m up.  a thousand refugees have arrived here. Water channel to Crimea functioning, which is worth noting.
Impressed by enormous agricultural possibilities in Southern Ukraine. Now in Kherson region within sight of a Crimea. Visited also @UNHCR.
@PublicDiplo @eurocrat Majority in our Parliament against at this time. Focus on practical cooperation.
Completely and utterly false that I have compared Orthodoxy with Islamic terrorism. Propaganda. Beware.   Bratislava and heading for Ukraine. My sixth visit to the country during last eight months. Starting in Kherson in the South.
Sweden will increase defence spending in coming years with more than 10%. Important in more uncertain European situation.
Four PM’s from the Visegrad countries at debate here at #globsec stress importance of stronger EU foreign, security and energy policies.
To strengthen our defence forces, Parliamentary Commission is recommending also acquisition of 10 more advanced version Gripen fighters.
Difficult to avoid noticing great interest also here in Slovakia for potential of the Gripen fighter.
Had good meeting with Czech PM Sobotka on links between our two countries. Stressed importance  also of Gripen fighter cooperation.
Well, one does notice that RT more often than not “sends in the clowns”. Part of the propaganda machine method.  meet all the time, but I still had a more official bilateral meeting with Slovakia FM @MiroslavLajcak here today.  #globsec2014 Slovak FM @MiroslavLajcak said that  “we live in far more dangerous neighbourhood than we previously thought.”
This quote from me is a complete fake. Propaganda from somewhere. @b92english @b92  that there is live stream from #globsec discussions here in Bratislava. Ukraine at the moment.  with @EngstrmHillevi I greeted UN SG Ban Ki-moon welcome to Stockholm this morning.  steps in EU support to political, economic and financial stability in Ukraine agreed in Brussels yesterday.  deep condolence to Turkey and all relatives to the dead miners in Soma after the terrible accident.
Today Stockholm is proud to host the @gfmd2014se with UN SG Ban Ki-moon, Crown Princess Victoria and 900 or so others.
And now taking off for Vienna and meetings at #globsec conference in Bratislava.  that @EBRD is focusing on how to reignite growth and return to convergence in European transition economies.  morning to Arlanda airport to greet UN SG Ban Ki-moon welcome to Sweden. Also talks on different key issues on global security agenda.
Today I greeted Hameed Haami welcome as the first resident Ambassdor of Afghanistan to Sweden.  see UN SG Ban Ki-moon tomorrow morning as he arrives in Stockholm. Future of Syria political and humanitarian effort on agenda.
I regret the decision of Lakhdar Brahimi to step down as UN envoy, but express our thanks for efforts he has done to end carnage in Syria.
@fbrantner And thanks got your help in getting support for the idea!
Today starts in Vienna key session of the talks with Iran on the nuclear question. Not yet there, but crunch time approaches.
Today Ukraine PM @YatsenyukAP heads to Brussels for talks with EU Commission on support and help to Ukraine reforms and democracy.
Should certainly not be forgotten that we also adopted conclusion on EU policy for Arctic region today.    MFA reaction to so called referendum yesterday indicates it continues to pursue destabilisation strategy.  was a rainy day in Stockholm late summer 2010 that @alexstubb and myself said that Europe needed a @eurpeace. Now it’s reality.
Taking off from Brussels after important EU FM meeting and @eurpeace launch. Was an initiative by then Finland FM @alexstubb and myself 2010
And here eight European governments are officially launching the EIP @Eurpeace. Great interest.  Ashton starts the press briefing, after which we will introduce the European Institute of Peace @Eurpeace.  are the EU conclusions on Russia and Ukraine as we agreed them a couple of hours ago.  reached strong and comprehensive conclusion on Russia and Ukraine after good and constructive discussions also with @SwissOSCE2014.
Arrived slightly late at today's meeting in Brussels, but had time for some quick remarks to the media.  started our EU meeting today here in Brussels with what we can do to help to #BringBackOurGirls.
Sweden part of “the A-Team of digital diplomacy”. That’s the way it should be.  key contests on the final day of the gigantic and important election in India.  Stockholm very early for a day in Brussels with EU FM’s. Russia/Ukraine and Middle East will be in focus.  @svtagenda on how the extreme left and the extreme right go hand in hand in seeking to weaken and fragment the EU - a dangerous policy.
Figures from fake referendums in Eastern Ukraine likely to be fake. No way of knowing even turnout.
Rather predictable reactions in parts of Russia to result of #Eurovision yesterday. A fault line in societies.  Institute of Peace gets off the ground tomorrow. @Eurpeace. Great success!  that the new peace agreement for South Sudan is respected. There is acute risk of a hunger catastrophe.  at voting patterns in #Eurovision yesterday. Our bilateral relations with Italy under some strain. But booming with Ukraine.
Turmoil driven by separatists and pro-Russia armed gangs risks completely collapsing the economy of the Donbass region. Tragedy coming.
Presidential election in Lithuania today with @GrybauskaiteLT in strong position for 2nd term. An important neighbour to us.
Can’t stop of reflecting over power consumption of fabulous #Eurovision show. Like couple of steelworks. Guess rest of Denmark in darkness.
Joining app 180 million others and watching the #Eurovision final from Copenhagen. Great show.
Today was last day of Nordic Baltic Transition Support Unit in Mazar-e-Sharif in Afghanistan. Helped build peace.  - це українська територія, окупована Росією. Повинен бути закритий вхід (туди) для будь-якого законного бізнесу, не схваленого Києвом.
Everything possible must be done to #BringBackOurGirls!
Crimea is Ukraine territory occupied by Russia. It must be off-limits to any legitimate business or other activity not approved by Kiev.
I understand new Estonia PM @TaaviRoivas had good visit to Stockholm and PM Fredrik Reinfeldt today.  67 million smartphone users in India. At election 5 yrs ago only 2.5 million. Campaigns in worlds largest election also going online.
Even in times like these we should remember that during WW2 the Soviet Union lost 27 million people. Victory Day has a meaning.
Would have been nice to be in Sarajevo for reopening of old National Library. Shelled and burnt out during the war.  starting to head home from Paris on this Europe day.  capital flows out of Russia last few months have been as high as $220bn? ECB seems to think so. Huge.  salue l’action des Européens pour faire avancer la croissance et la solidarité sur notre continent. #EuropeDay
We need the EU for four simple reasons: peace, prosperity, security and stability. Together we can do what we can’t do alone. #EuropeDay
Divisions over history. Yesterday was WW2 victory day here in France. Today is victory day in Russia. And for the US it ended with Japan.
Just spent a lively Paris dinner discussing lessons of 1914 for how to handle the Europe of 2014. Value of a strong EU unanimous conclusion.
I happen to be in Paris and proud to report that a Swede took gold in the annual Bocuse d'Or contest between chefs.   Cloudy and chilly here as well. But good discussion with friends from across Europe and US on China, Afghanistan and other issues.
No support for separatism in Ukraine. But need to develop dialogue between elected representatives in all regions.  taking off for Paris. Informal discussion on wide variety of foreign policy challenges on the agenda there.
@journalist92 Don’t believe propaganda. A complete and deliberate distortion of what I have said.
Thursday morning. Rainy and chilly. Cabinet meeting. Assess beginning of EU election campaign. Important to raise voter awareness.
Some sort of fake referendum in Eastern Ukraine on May 11 was part of destabilisation plan. Good step if Moscow now ditches it.
Russia FM Lavrov warns against extreme right-wing forces in Europe. But it was these he relied on to support Russia policy on Crimea.
Here my remarks at the @Coe ministerial meeting in Vienna yesterday.  we have key parliamentary debate between our party leaders on EU issues prior to May 25 election. I will - of course - be there.
"Regime isolating Russia from the Western world, ending any hope for the country's modernization."  No, not really…
Leaving Vienna after @coe meeting dominated by Russia/Ukraine issue. But strong support from nearly all states here for May 25 election.
Ukraine FM @ADeshchytsia makes strong appeal for support to his country's democratic path.  sometimes sounds as if it’s refighting WW2. Fascism all over the place. Enemies everywhere. Ghosts of history mobilised.
I also highlighted the @ceo report on human rights in Ukraine which focuses on concern for the situation of the Crimea Tatars now.
And I called for all @coe states to support the holding of the presidential elections in Ukraine on May 25. Democracy is the solution.
In @coe speech I underlined gravity of Russia’s violation of core commitment by occupation and annexation of Crimea. Must never be accepted.
No reason to complain about the setting of our @coe meeting in the old Hofburg. Now new Serbia FM Dacic speaking.  issue obvious on the streets of Vienna before start of our @coe ministerial here.  have loved to see this exhibition here in Vienna on aspects of 1914. But 2014 crisis takes all my time.  also with Austria FM @sebastiankurz. Has handled @coe chairmanship during these difficult six months very well.
Most enjoyable and important dinner celebrating 65 years of @coe. But what will happen tomorrow? Acute tensions with and over Russia.
On my way to @coe ministerial in Vienna. Celebrate 65 years of work for rights and democracy tonight. But Russia aggression will dominate.
Most enjoyable discussion on challenges for Europe with also @birgittaohlsson at @ufstockholm earlier today!  @jsjostedt Visserligen inte avslutat mina universitetsstudier, men tror tror detta knappast jag har rösträtt i kårvalet.
I hope our relations with Kazakhstan in political and economic fields will expand in coming years. Great potential.  and Ethiopia has a long history of cooperation. Important to build on in new era.  today receive new ambassadors from Kazakhstan and Ethiopia. Both countries just opened or reopened embassies here in Stockholm.
Djemilev - leader of the Crimean Tatars - was again denied entry to his homeland by Russian authorities. A shame.  @SegaBG No. Rubbish.
@iptamai Formed in accordance with constitution with the support of clear parliamentary majority after resignation of previous government.
Full day of campaigning for EU election in Stockholm and Malmö yesterday. Interest growing. Ukraine crisis brings key issues in focus.
@EstulinDaniel Your language says something about @ActualidadRT where you claim to be working. Good for many to note.
I welcome release of illegally detained @OSCE inspectors in Ukraine. All other hostages held by illegal armed groups should be released.
PM Fredrik Reinfeldt stresses need for a strong EU to help ensure stability and peace in all of Europe.  will be tweeting more in Swedish on @CBildt from the different aspects of the national campaigns for the European Parliament elections.
Today we also celebrate World Press Freedom Day. Sorely needed in our world of today.  of our campaign for the EU election May 25 today. Most important. On the web 11:00. In Swedish.   för EU-valet kl 11:00 på Norrmalmstorg i Stockholm sänds också på webben.  was interviewed on @AlJazeera America yesterday on the situation in Ukraine.   у смертях у Одесі повинні постати перед судом, а мир і спокій відновлено у цьому прекрасному місті. #UnitedForUkraine
Виновных в смертях в Одессе следует отдать под суд, а мир и покой - восстановить в этом красивом городе. #UnitedForUkraine
Those responsible for all the deaths in Odessa must be brought to justice, and peace and calm restored to this beautiful city.
Horrible with at least 38 dead in Odessa. Seems to have started with pro-Russian attempt to get control of buildings. Violence must stop!
Hectic evening. First on @AlJazeera discussing developments in Ukraine and then on @CNN on the same subject and the issue of sanctions.
Pro-Russian thugs getting active and violent in Odessa as well. Unfortunately not unexpected. But Odessa is a city open to all of Europe.
Strong support by US President Obama and Germany Chancellor Merkel for Ukraine elections May 25. Disruptions should not be tolerated.
So far clear assessment is that Kiev government has been implementing April 17 Geneva agreement while Russia has not.
I guess the new US report on big data is mandatory reading for all concerned with the new issues of the new world.   helicopters shoot down in Slovyansk. Some elderly ladies bought some RPG’s or missiles at the local grocery store, I assume.
Slightly late, but I should congratulate Ivica Dačić on becoming new FM of Serbia. EU accession talks core of his mission in coming years.
Every EU enlargement has been opposed by some fearing it would weaken us. Each one has afterwards been seen as strengthening the EU.
We need an even stronger, broader and deeper European Union to meet the regional as well as global challenges ahead.
Ukraine unveils deep economic reform program backed by large IMF loan and support. To turn the country around.  of F16's from Denmark to Estonia yesterday an important part of policy of reassurance to the Baltic states.   always worth reading @ESIeu - here on the importance and lessons of the decade of EU and NATO enlargement.   we celebrate the success of the great EU enlargement a decade ago. Transformed societies and secured peace.  only did CIA invent the net, now Moscow says that it controls Ukraine PM through scientology. Paranoia gone wild.  to take off from Keflavik. Gradually heading home to the night of bonfires and greeting the Spring arriving to the Nordic world.
@asliaydintasbas Yes, as always…although it wasn’t by the Bosphorus.
Five Nordic FM's in informal  discussions in cultural setting today. Ukraine, Arctic and Middle East in focus.  Norðurlandanna hittast á sameiginlegum fundi í Snorrastofu í Reykholti.  our way back to Keflavik after a most constructive Nordic meeting. All inspired by the legacy of Sturlason.  our Nordic FM meeting here at Snorrastofa in Reykholt. Wonderful sunny day.  critically important election day in Iraq. The issues the country is facing must be solved by strengthening democratic institutions.
Ett EU som försvagas leder till ett farligare Europa. EU-valet har nu blivit ännu viktigare.   had the highest support for protecting Ukraine’s stability”, according to new poll in Europe.  Nordic FM's. Well, some more, some less.  White Nordic summer nights are coming. Here the small church in Reykholt at 22:30 this evening.  Nordurlanda funda í Reykholtí í Borgarfirdi í dag of á morgon í bodi @GunnarBragiS.
Tourism now more important than fisheries for the economy of Iceland. Increased 20% last year. Not difficult to see why. Beautiful.
Landed in Keflavik and now on the way 100 km or so to Reykholt. The land of the sagas. And of dramatic nature.  Was probably planned from the beginning. Aim to disrupt and discredit the election. Key that it does not succeed.
Taking off to Iceland and meeting there tonight with Nordic FM’s. Dinner at Reykholt of Snorre Sturlason fame.
EU adds 15 names to those subjects to sanctions for destabilising Ukraine.  York Times very clear stance  against "ruthless disregard for the law" in Egypt.   Yes, he was the photographer!
New US sanctions against Russia puts a distinctly dark cloud over any business dealings with Rosneft oil company. Consequences unclear.
Taking off for Stockholm after three most useful, productive and enjoyable days in Tallinn and Estonia. Thanks to everyone!
Finland FM Tuomioja, former Estonia President Tõnisson and Estonia PM Röivas. Partnership across Gulf of Finland.  ministerial in the very modern and networked cabinet room of Estonia in  the old Stenbock palace here.  FM's Canada @HonJohnBaird, Estonia and Mongolia at the balcony of the Stenbock palace in Tallinn. #FOC14  mass trial outrage in Egypt with 549 people sentenced to death. The world must and will react!
Canada FM @HonJohnBaird warns of green men occupying and annexing also the net in Russia. #FOC14
Today we congratulate all the citizens of Moldova on achieving visa free access to the EU countries. Eastern Partnership in action!
#Moldova tot mai aproape de #EU: începând de mâine - călatorii de scurtă durată cu pașaport biometric fără viză!  and impressive keynote address by President @IlvesToomas on the principles of net freedom. #FOC14  as pro-Ukraine rally in Kharkov today was substantially larger than the separatist one. Reflect popular view.  evening in Tallinn. But gearing up for Freedom Online Coalition ministerial #FOC14 #netfreedom here tomorrow.  erosion of internet freedom seems likely” in Russia.  of the best phone calls for a long time - with our just release OSCE inspector. Thanks everyone who helped!  OSCE inspectors must be released immediately, although I welcome the release of the Swedish officer. I just talked to him.
Here what's left of the old Soviet nuclear submarine training facility in Paldiski. The two reactors are secured.  entombed ex-Soviet nuclear submarine reactor in Paldiski. Was here in 1994 as we helped with closing this.  #lennartmeri conference ended with Jaakko Iloniemi warning strongly against a Europe where might is right. Would endanger us all.
With different contacts we are doing our utmost to encourage the released of the abducted OSCE military inspectors in Slovyansk.
US Airborne Brigade unit arriving in Latvia today. Political reassurance in view of Russia actions against Ukraine.  Russian military medal to "green men" for capturing Crimea. Says action started before fall of Yanukovich.  opportunity to see the moving movie "Age of Delirium" on the myth and reality of life in the Soviet Union.  time to visit also the war cemetery in Tallinn. Honours both Estonians and Russians from the different wars.  encourage and appreciate steps also by Russia to ensure freedom of abducted inspectors in Eastern Ukraine.  truly magnificent day in Tallinn, although #lennartmeri conference unfortunately is indoors. Without windows.  Tallinn I meet and talked to two of the heroes of the rescue operation after the Chernobyl nuclear disaster.  G7 statement, including by EU, on Ukraine situation and the lack of constructive action by Russia.  discussions at #lennartmeri conference available online. Now on security challenges in the Baltic region.  think we all agreed that Russia now seeks to revise the post-Soviet order in the East of Europe. #lennartmeri  concerned with OSCE inspectors being abducted in Eastern Ukraine. Including one Swede. They must be released immediately.
Soon taking off for Tallinn - other capital closest to Stockholm. Looking forward to #lennartmeri conference. Ukraine on agenda tonight.
Not even the most minute sign of Moscow trying to get illegal gangs in Eastern Ukraine to follow Geneva agreement. None. Nada. Nichts.
A truly wonderful day in the European city of Stockholm!  State Secretary for Europe @macaesbruno also visited. We had reason to focus on Ukraine.  update on all the global humanitarian challenges from UN @ValerieAmos on quick visit. With @EngstrmHillevi.  but hectic day in Stockholm. Look forward to going to Lennart Meri conference in Tallinn later today.   downgrade of Russia’s economy underscores the damage Putin’s aggression against Ukraine has done.  is always difficult, but recent statement by Turkey PM Erdogan on 1915 was a positive step.  @euromaidan @mfarussia Armed coup in Simferopol and action by Russian forces was first. Military aggression.
@mfarussia Well, Russia conducted military aggression against Ukraine and then in violation of international law annexed Crimea.
@mfarussia The new government under PM Yatsenyuk was confirmed with broad support by the Ukraine Rada. Old Azarov government had resigned.
@FrancoFrattini Agree entirely. Today Sweden is the country that takes the largest number of refugees from Syria in the EU.
Had time to buy my favourite Portugese cheese - always a must!  - before it is time to take off again with Stockholm as destination.
Lawlessness with kidnappings, killings, torture and criminality in Eastern Ukraine deeply disturbing. Illegal gangs should stop and disarm.
Important meeting on Eastern Partnership in Prague today with Deputy PM Jan Björklund representing Sweden. Reaffirm strong support for EaP.
Landed in Lisbon 40 years after the historic 25 April that brought democracy to Portugal.   to take off from São Paulo after so far successful @netmundial2014 conference here. Now heading back to Europe with its challenges.
It was very good to be able to sit down with parts of the @OurInternetGCIG commission to plan our work post-@netmundial2014. Much to do.
Good that EUSR for Human Rights @SJLambrinidis is also here at #netmundial. EU stands for human rights equally online and offline.
Here my remarks on net freedom and governance a couple of minutes ago at #netmundial #netmundial2014.  of and on the net key. Net governance ecosystem must prevent capture by anyone. Neither big business nor big government. #Netmundial
And now it's @NeelieKroesEU speaking here at @netmundial2014 on EU approach and policy.  that @OSCERFoM takes issue with recent new attempts to limit the freedom of the net in Russia. #NEtmundial  @netmundial2014 here in São Paulo there is is the Freedom Online Coalition in Tallinn next week. #netmundial  that one can follow @netmundial2014 discussions live around the world. Global debate on a global issue.  do Brasil na crise da Ucrania e atitude estranha.” Interview in @folhacom Brazil’s largest paper.  to see so many friends from the global Internet community coming together for @netmundial2014 in São Paulo. Tomorrow it really starts!
Another clampdown on net freedom in Russia. There is a Crimea happening in Russia proper as well. #netmundial  think Tom Friedman has it basically right about Ukraine and what it’s really all about.  from the Abyss of Futility”. On pitfalls and possibilities in the relationship between Iran and the US.   No, Gothenburg is No 1 when it comes to employment by Swedish industries. And Stockholm No 3.
As @netmundial2014 opens Russia announces new restrictions on the freedom on the net. #netmundial  must remember how the Net has transformed societies and has empowered people all around the world.” #netmundial  Paulo is the 2nd largest city for Swedish industry in the world with app 50.000 employees.   legendary Crimea Tatar leader Mustafa Dzhemilev from ancient land of his people is an outrage.  morning in São Paulo. Greater city of 25 million people. And more than 300 Swedish companies here.  increase necessary in a Europe that is less stable and predictable. Also increasing intelligence efforts. Guard against uncertainty.
Sweden announces substantial long-term strengthening of its defence efforts. More training, new submarines and additional Gripen fighters.
Soon taking off from Milan for 12 hours through the night to São Paulo. Brazil is a key partner country for Sweden. And @netmundial2014
Great initiative to launch a genuine civil society based dialogue between Ukraine and Russia.  one has seen pro-Russian forces in Eastern Ukraine leaving buildings and disarming as of yet. And no sign of Moscow urging them either.
Soon time to head to São Paulo and @netmundial2014. Core issues of 21st century global affairs on the agenda.  Easter Day in the sun in Ferrara in Northern Italy. A true gem of the renaissance.  with Ukraine FM @AndriiDesh on moving implementation of Geneva agreement forward. Visible progress on the ground needed.
Good preparations for global  @netmundial2014 in São Paulo next week on the future of Internet governance.   wish all the relevant parts of my followers here a Happy Easter!
I’m very concerned with attacks in both Bor and Bentiu in South Sudan against innocent civilians and also a UN base. Reports of many killed.
Lage pro-Ukraine rally in Donetsk yesterday. Reports say it was larger than pro-Russian ones. But without automatic weapons. A difference.
Enemies of freedom are seeking to work together to control and censor the net. Free nations must counter.   Geneva talks today key whether Russia delivers on calling on green men and others to leave occupied buildings in Donbass.
I see that President Putin has now acknowledged that regular Russian forces were “behind” so called local forces on Crimea.
Today is a key day in India’s great and important parliamentary election. Result matter to the world.  picture from pro-Ukraine manifestation in Odessa.  as if President Putin is now extending ambitions to what he refers to as Novorossija covering all South and East of Ukraine.
Beautiful day in the clear and bright sun of northern Italy today. But events elsewhere dominate.  that Moscow supports illegal armed groups and aims at creating a fragmented and dysfunctional Ukraine.  am concerned that two presidential candidates have been harassed and abused in Ukraine today. The election must be protected.
UN human rights report refutes Russian propaganda allegations on Ukraine.  is approaching so I’m hoping for a few more relaxed days. Whether events will permit it will remain an open question.
And now we are wheels up from Luxembourg and heading home to Stockholm. Strong EU position on Russia and Ukraine agreed today.
EU calls for Russia to immediately withdraw mandate of its Federation Council to use force against Ukraine. Important for upcoming talks.
Important statement by Donetsk key industrialist Ahmetov on the need for Ukraine as a unified and united country. 
we also approved up to €1bn in macro-financial assistance to Ukraine following IMF package.  my remarks to media on Russia and Ukraine as I arrived at the EU meeting here in Luxembourg today.   EU meeting with formal decision on unilateral trade opening for Ukraine. An immediate boost of €500 million for Ukraine business.
And my third preparatory meeting today is with my Nordic and Baltic FM colleagues. Always most useful.
Good today that there is time also for meeting with @EPP FM’s before we start the formal EU meeting.
Starting day with meeting @ecfr and listening to their observations on Russia and Ukraine. Independent analysis always worth listening to.
Luxembourg a Sunday evening. Not overly lively. Ended up at a restaurant where I counted five EU FM’s. The rest are probably at home.
If illegal armed groups took over police stations and local government offices in Sweden we would use all our instruments to restore order.
Sweden wants a stronger financial IMF support package for Ukraine coupled with clear reforms.  also to FM @AndriiDesh before leaving Ukraine. Expressed support for efforts of Ukraine government to protect democracy.
Clear that Abdullah Abdullah and Ashraf Ghani will go to second round in Afghanistan presidential election.  up from Odessa after most useful time spent here. Charming and important Ukraine city. Now for Luxembourg prior to EU FM’s tomorrow.
EU’s Ashton urges Russia to pull back forces from border and cease any further action aimed at destabilising Ukraine.  atmosphere here in Odessa - but people are genuinely concerned and afraid of what might happen.  a nice group photo of the nice local activists of Eastern Ukraine. All with identical automatic weapons.  unity supporters gathered this morning again at Potemkin stairs in Odessa. People are extremely worried.  must also demand that Russia immediately revokes Federation Council mandate of March 1 for armed invasion of Ukraine.
Also Russia must demand that illegally armed groups in Ukraine immediately disarm, leave occupied buildings and respect democratic order.
It was a coordinated armed action to seize control over key parts of Eastern Ukraine yesterday. Would not have happened without Russia.
Coordinated action by well armed and equipped units at key locations in Eastern Ukraine. Massive escalation of destabilisation strategy.
This was at the famous stairs of Odessa earlier today. Support for a European Ukraine.  of plans. Will obviously remain in Odessa overnight. Alarming developments in Eastern Ukraine. Green men.
"Moscow must stop dictating terms to Kyiv and cancel Federation Council decision on army against Ukraine".  as Transnistria imported 8 billion cigarettes last year. Extremely heavy smokers. Or something else…
Highly stimulating discussion with large number of young entrepreneurs and civil society activists in Odessa. A dynamic city.
Among other problems Odessa now also has to deal with to date app. 1.500 refugees from Crimea after the Russian occupation and annexation.
In Odessa I also look forward to visiting the EUBAM mission monitoring the border to Moldova.   I’m leaving Kiev and heading for Odessa in Southern Ukraine for wide-ranging talks there. Later today I continue to Kherson.
Starting my day with working breakfast with Ukraine FM @AndriiDesh. We have much to discuss.
Here with translation into Ukrainian is my speech and Q &amp; A with students in Kiev earlier today.  popularity of selfies seems to be as solid here in Ukraine as elsewhere. A lot of them during the day.  soon be live on Shuster Live here in Ukraine. One of the most TV shows here.  very good discussions at the Kyiv Security Forum. Respect for territorial integrity key to stability of Europe.  my meeting with Yulia Tymoshenko attracted a lot of media attention.  a full, interested and enthusiastic house as I spoke at the Institute of Journalism here in Kiev.  is the centre of Europe’s and the worlds attention now. This is my fifth visit within the last seven months. Talk to everyone.
If Ukraine improved its energy efficiency to reasonably EU levels I doubt it would need to import any gas at all.
Was great to see Yulia Tymoshenko again and discuss the future of Ukraine with her as well.
Ended this day in Kiev with productive dinner with presidential candidate Petro Poroshenko and Slovakia FM @MiroslavLajcak. Much to discuss.
Missed Kyiv Security Forum today because of other talks here, but will certainly be there tomorrow morning.  with PM Yatsenyuk on what we can do more to support independence, integrity and reforms of Ukraine.  to Ukraine to see PM @YatsenyukAP and attending Kyiv Security Forum this evening. Together with also Slovak FM @MiroslavLajcak.
Sign with @LinkeviciusL treaty on boundary in the Baltic Sea between Swedish and Lithuanian economic zones.  we are answering questions in Parliament. Here our Minister for Labour Market Elisabeth Svantesson.  was really a group of eminent persons we could welcome for the  @ctbtoalerts nuclear disarmament discussions.  Swedish, Italian and Lithuanian flags outside our Ministry today.  efforts continue. Russia nearly doubles gas price for Ukraine and demands one month advance payment. Crisis within crisis.
Will meet Group of Eminent Persons of @ctbtoalerts to discuss issues of nuclear disarmament. Complete Test Ban Treaty key part of efforts.
Thursday. Cabinet meeting. I stand in for several colleagues in decisions today. And always important to sum up issues and events.
Is a pleasure to have Italy FM @FedericaMog here. First time for an Italian FM in Sweden since 1996.  pleased to welcome Italy FM @FedericaMog to Stockholm for bilateral talks this evening. Weather could have been better…
Excellent that Commission with 
@StefanFuleEU is now setting up Support Group to coordinate efforts for Ukraine.     pleasure to talk with Canada FM @HonJohnBaird on Ukraine, Arctic cooperation and other issues. Weather better in Ottawa than here.
@DenisMacShane @BBCWorld Sorry. It was South Africa. If that's important...
Slightly bizarre with @BBCWorld live coverage of some tragic trial in South Africa. Is that what's most important in our world today?
Mobile data use in Africa increases by 119% a year. A dynamic continent and a revolutionary technology.  is inviting pure ridicule in criticising Ukraine for military preparations. Russia has invaded Crimea and massed troops on borders.
Important parliamentary and local elections in Indonesia today. Race for 560 seats in parliament and some 19,000 across the country.
US says that Russia special forces and agents have been involved in Eastern Ukraine during last 24 hours. Then we are seeing new escalation.
Back in Stockholm. Looks like November has come back. Pretty depressing weather.
New report by the Independent Commission on Turkey was launched yesterday. I will read it with interest.  strategy is to weaken Ukraine's government institutions as much as possible."  still in darkness. Off to get flight back to Stockholm.
May will be a critical month in Russian strategy to destabilise Ukraine with focus now in South and East. Note May 9, May 11 and May 25.
Today is the start of the world's largest democratic election - India begins to vote for its parliament Lok Sabha.  sun is setting over Kabul airport as I wait for my delayed flight. It's a long journey back home.  leaving Kabul after day with many but overwhelmingly positive talks and impressions. Afghanistan now seems to be on the right track.
Also had a press conference earlier today with Afghanistan FM Osmani. Focus on good bilateral relationship.  conversation as always with Abdullah Abdullah. Confident about good election result.  enjoyable garden chat with Ashraf Ghani on task awaiting Afghanistan after the successful election.  in a sunny Kabul. Optimistic mood after polling day. Started by seeing key international representatives.  Istanbul after day of work - but also some leisure with the sights of the city. Its Sunday, after all. Now off to new challenges.
Visit to Haga Sophia always impresses. It took a thousand years until anything that could rival it was built.  pattern that pro-Russian thugs try to stir up trouble in Eastern Ukraine. Heavily supported by Kremlin propaganda machine. And more.
Most readable from always good @aanafgh on the details of yesterday's historic election in Afghanistan.  you have to ask yourself, what else is in President Putins's  heart?   another society, but this photo of Afghan women lining up to vote is still a picture of a society changing.  constructive and insightful dinner by the Bosphorus with different Turkish intellectuals.  warmly congratulate the people of Afghanistan to the success of this day of voting. We will see who won, but very clear that Taliban lost.
Today it's 50 days to the election to European Parliament. Most important for coming five years. Time to start mobilising.
As usual keen media interest in what we had discussed. But meetings like these are not for decisions.  Athens after very good meeting here. Truly important with informal meetings like these. Reflect on bigger issues. Now to Istanbul.
Discussing EU strategic partnerships. But good question also if others see us as sufficiently capable of being a true strategic partner.
If you are interested in Eastern Partnership, the seminar we had in Riga on the subject is now available on the web.  to be able to follow @afghansvote during this very important day. Reports so far of big turnout throughout Afghanistan.
This morning we are joined in our discussions by ministers from the candidate countries. Balkans and Turkey.  is - most important - first round of presidential elections in Afganistan. Crucial for future of the country.  day of informal talks. Here Germany FM Steinmeier, Croatia FM @vpusic, Cathy Ashton and myself earlier.  dinner in wonderful Acropolis museum. Everyone should visit. But serious discussion on EU challenges.    worried by developments in Georgia. Government's politics of revenge is not congruent with a free and fair election environment.
Sorry to miss #sverigemotet back in Sweden, with also MEP candidates, but EU discussions must be my priority today.  beautiful day in Athens as we start our crucial informal talks about EU Firesign policy challenges ahead.  in pleasant Athens, and happy to note that Greece "is set to emerge from a six-year recession this year."  here I am in Istanbul - changing flights to Athens - enjoying that Twitter is back in Turkey. A rather shameful episode for the country.
Breakfast in Brussels and day in Stockholm. Now off for Istanbul to get to Athens late tonight. Informal EU FM meeting there tomorrow.
Beautiful picture of polling material being distributed in Afghanistan prior to crucial election this weekend.  going for launch of European @esa earth observation satellite Sentinel-1A later this evening.   with European Parliament vote today to abolish all roaming charges in EU by next Christmas! Europe works!   pleasure to see old friend Celso Amorin, now Defence Minister of Brazil, and discuss the state of the world.  a US F15 and a Swedish Gripen fighter together in the Baltic Regional Training Exercise earlier this week.  to leave Brussels and EU-Africa Summit. Back to Stockholm for hectic day there.  Constitutional Court unanimously rules Twitter ban as violation of free speech guaranteed by Constitution.  less than 61 heads of state and government at our EU-Africa summit. Discussion now moved to business links.  is sometimes useful to be reminded of how large Africa is. Rising billion there key partnership for Europe.  turmoil, but the vast summit between EU and African nations is slowly getting going.  I also said that we have failed with drug issue in Afghanistan. Production increasing. This corrupts and corrodes the entire society.
At ISAF meeting, I said that Sweden gives 1% of our GDP as ODA, and single biggest receiving country in the years ahead will be Afghanistan.
Always useful meetings in the corridors of NATO. Here with John Kerry from US and @martinlidegaard from Denmark.  bird to Brussels for meetings today. ISAF ministerial on Afghanistan and Summit between EU and Africa thereafter. And Ukraine.
Even Belarus FM defends Ukraine's right to choose its "integration vector". No applause in Moscow for that.  statement by Russia on territorial integrity of Ukraine should be nominated for some prize. Only uncertain which  very much welcome the opening of the Embassy of Afghanistan to Sweden today. We are committed to helping Afghanistan in the years ahead.
At @uacrisis briefing in Kiev @engstrmhillevi presented our Swedish direct support to Ukraine.  launches military operation for Central African Republic. Humanitarian emergency. Sweden helps with air transport.  Agree. And that's exactly what I will tell Parliament. We are concerned with all Syrians.
Our minister @EngstrmHillevi is in Kiev today to discuss our different assistance program's for Ukraine. #UnitedForUkraine
Soon to Parliament to discuss the situation in Syria and in particular the plight of the Christian and Kurdish communities there.
Until Federation Council of Russia annuls its authorisation to invade Ukraine the threat of it happening is there. It must be withdrawn.
Today was also the important Summit meeting between EU and China in Brussels. Should not be forgotten.  now we are preparing to take off from Jönköping for a 45 min flight back to Stockholm.  it was as good with full house also with @UFJonkoping - here the board of the new association.  a great meeting with @ufvaxjo ! Now it's time for @UFJonkoping .  is the real end of history – the history of dreams about a world governed by democratic values." Adam Michnik  worth noting increasing links between far right parties in EU and Russian polices.  like being a most interesting presidential election in Afghanistan this weekend. Likely to be a second round.  early this morning to get to Växjö and Jönköping. To discuss how Europe could cope better with all our regional and global challenges.
Will soon be with @FareedZakaria on @CNN to discuss latest development in Russia policy against Ukraine.  material on responsibility for the killings in Kiev on February 20. Yanukovich crack forces.  charged Turkish local elections today. Battle for Istanbul is of even more importance than usual. But also local elections in France.
Enthusiastic women at @ashrafghani election rally in Herat today. A good sign.  this phase of crisis, Kremlin seeks a pact with the West to get acceptance for its scheme for Ukraine. A certain historical pattern here.
Russia uses fake claims to significantly increase economic pressure on Ukraine. Destabilisation strategy.  plan to break up Ukraine in units that could go off in different directions will create instability and disorder for decades.
Greater unity among pro-European forces prior to May Ukraine election is most welcome. Fragmentation of country is still a major risk.
Taliban is doing what they can to disrupt the election in Afghanistan. A sign of weakness. Democratic choice makes the country stronger.
Over one million people have been forced from their homes by the conflict in South Sudan. No end in sight.  is also good news from Afghanistan. Election campaign intense. Impressive rallies. Lively debates.  worried for situation of Crimea Tatars. Reports of hundred of refugees. Important that @osce and @AstridThors urgently look at issue.
I have no doubt @jensstoltenberg is a good choice as new SG of @nato. Intimate knowledge also of Northern European security issues a plus.
Now heading home after a most successful state visit in Latvia. A close relationship is now even closer.  Yes, but we need to follow up also on those that abstained. Israel? Bosnia? Afghanistan? Iraq?
"Efforts by Russia to perpetuate myth that anti-Semitism is a part of new Ukrainian government’s agenda is alarming".  how nations voted on territorial integrity in UN today. EU should follow up on each vote. Our core interest.  now Lisa Miskovsky at the after-party of the Swedish state banquet in Riga. Truly great!  100-11 support for territorial integrity of Ukraine in UN General Assembly vote. #UnitedforUkraine
Швеція готова надати двосторонні позики і технічну допомогу #Ukraine разом з кредитами @IMFNews. #UnitedForUkraine
Швеция готова предоставить двусторонние займы и техническую помощь #Ukraine вместе с кредитами @IMFNews. #UnitedForUkraine
Students from all Eastern Partnership countries at @SSERiga. Their talent will transform their countries.  up @SSERiga in 1994 was perhaps best thing Sweden has done for this part of Europe since Dorpat University was set up in 1632.
And now we are starting the seminar at @sseriga on the Eastern Partnership and lessons from Latvia.  warmly welcome progress in talks between IMF and Ukraine on the important support and reform package.   economy is one of the fastest growing in the EU."  Latvia FM @edgarsrinkevics we confirmed the eternal friendship between our peoples.  торговли и сотрудничество с #EU создаёт перспективы роста и увеличения количества рабочих мест в #Ukraine. #UnitedForUkraine
Зростання торгівлі і співробітництво з #EU надає перспективи росту і збільшення кількості робочих місць в #Ukraine. #UnitedForUkraine
Starting day with discussion on new cooperation prospects between Latvia PM Laimdota Straujuma and the large Swedish business delegation.
Pleasant sunny morning in Riga. Church towers reflected in calm Daugava river.  we are all United for Ukraine! #unitedforukraine  He deserted immediately. Should have stayed and ratified Rada decisions under agreement. Didn't. Took helicopters and left.
@DmitriTrenin He wasn't toppled. He just abandoned his position - and his duties under the agreement. Just left. Remarkable.
@DmitriTrenin But as remarkable as contrary to international law to authorise military invasion of neighbours. Hardly stabilising.
@DmitriTrenin Well, observers might have read the invasion authorisation by the Federation Council of Russia March 1. Hardly stabilising.
"Bilingualism is the norm in Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia; trilingualism is increasingly the new standard."  had forward-looking discussions earlier today with Latvia President Andris Bērziņš. European situation in focus.  attendance at the Swedish-Latvian Business Forum. More than 800 Swedish companies already registered in Latvia.  visit to the Occupation Museum is a true must for every visitor to Riga. Looking forward to renovated building.   visits and school children belong together. Here the King with Latvian and Swedish children.  and Latvian flags - and in the background portraits of Swedish Kings from our even more common period.  are lining up outside the Blackheads House in Riga for the beginning of the Swedish State visit to Latvia.  was great to see that also friend and Indonesia FM Marty Natalegawa is visiting Riga today. Hope he will enjoy also Swedish State Visit.
Sweden is the largest foreign investor in Latvia, and there is great scope for further increase.  in Riga, but in Brussels today there is the important EU-US Summit with Ukraine and TTIP trade talks in focus.   now it's time to take off to Riga and the state visit by King and Queen of Sweden starting there tomorrow.  Reinfeldt and myself writing in Ukrainskaya Pravda on the support we must all give Ukraine now.  @nss2014 we agreed to continue the work that has made our world a safer place during the last few  now Netherlands PM Rutte sums up the most successful @nss2014 summit here. Critical steps for global security.  Latvia remembers the brutal deportations of more than 40.000 persons to Siberia in 1949.  attractive setting for the informal discussion between all leaders here at @NSS2014 on our future work.  spring day in The Hague. Even a new brand of tulip has appeared for the @NSS2014 summit here. Delightful.  EU officials with @StefanFuleEU to Kiev to help with implementation of the Association Agreement.       of the work we do for nuclear security, safety and non-proliferation. I'll talk about it at @NSS2014 today.   Cathy Ashton expresses "utmost concern" over massive death sentences in Egypt. And rightly so.  @NSS2014 dinner. PM Reinfeldt and myself had good talks with, among others, US President Obama and China President Xi Jinping.
Strong political signal to Russia that there will now be a G7 Summit in Brussels in June instead of the planned G8 in Sochi.
Truly grotesque: more than 500 people sentenced to death in a single hearing in Egypt.  Worst seen worldwide.  countries in @NSS2014 discussion bring up Ukraine situation and Russia violating 1994 Budapest memorandum.
Past two decades number of countries having weapons-usable fissile material been cut in half. More to do. @NSS2014   to see that @NTIWMD index puts Sweden in top of countries in nuclear security measures. @NSS2014   start of @NSS2014. Presidents of Korea, China and US start discussions.  @McFaul underestimating force of Putin's new anti-Western and anti-decadent line. Building on deeply conservative orthodox ideas.
Absolutely worth reading @McFaul reflections on where Russia is now heading. He is not optimistic.  security key global security issue. Reduce nuclear arms. Secure fissile material. Safe nuclear power to fight climate change.
Soon taking off for @NSS2014 in The Hague. I was there at the previous meetings in Washington and Seoul as well. Great progress achieved.
It is refreshing that Turkey President Abdullah Gül speaks out against stupid efforts to ban Twitter.   Suárez was key to the transition of Spain from isolated dictatorship to European democracy. A great man.   local musicians play the European anthem right in the local market of Odessa. A strong message.  The risk is not to be discounted. They have the forces in place to do it. But would be a phenomenal escalation of crisis.
Tomorrow I will be the at important Nuclear Security Summit @NSS2014 in The Hague. But in between there will be some hours in Stockholm.
Final session of this years #brusselsforum. The ultimate soft power!  security has arrested armed special Russian group in city of Odessa.  commander highlight large and now ready Russian forces along Ukraine border.   in Brussels. Somewhat grey. Last day of #BrusselsForum   Yes, in 1945. But in 1991 the evil Soviet empire crashed and a new Russia had the chance of a new start.
Russia statement that @OSCE Ukraine mission restricted mandate reflecting "new legal realities" not true. It just reflects Russian refusal.
Stupid efforts in Turkey to try to block Twitter isn't working and also backfiring heavily.  should note that there is an ongoing concentration of Russian forces along the borders of Ukraine.  agreement, but with restrictions, on @OSCE monitors in Ukraine. Now must deploy quickly. Disgrace that Russia stop access to Crimea.
Rather disgraceful that the two Russian Ambassadors here left the room when Ukraine FM @AndriiDesh took the stage. #BrusselsForum
Now you can follow Ukraine FM @AndriiDesh in discussions here at #BrusselsForum.   UK comment on key parts of Russia President Putin's annexation speech on Tuesday.  generation or two after 1945 Germany is surrounded by countries that, after all the horrible pain and suffering, see it as a friend.
Historic failure of Russia that a quarter of a century after fall of Soviet Union the new generations in its neighbours see it as an enemy.
EU cancels summit meeting with Russia that was planned to take place in Sochi.
Here PM's Reinfeldt of Sweden, Cameron of UK and Yatsenyuk of Ukraine signing Association Agreement today.  taking off for Brussels Forum and all the discussions there. Always useful and interesting.   signal that heads of state and government of the European Union have now signed the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU.
Turkey PM Erdoğan is not only damaging himself, but his entire nation, by his latest threats against Twitter.  my discussion earlier tonight with @camanpour on how far President Putin might be prepared to go in thus  with @camanpour on @CNN on impact of measures on Russia and its economy. And on options ahead in Russia aggression crisis.
President Obama's announcement of new measures against Russian persons and interests significant. Cost of aggression should now be clear.
Had global teleconference with members of @OurInternetGCIG to plan our work. Governance of the 21st century for a hyper connected world.
Had the pleasure of receiving the new Ambassadors from China, Japan, Austria and Namibia this afternoon.
Looks as if Russia has initiated fairly complete trade sanctions against Ukraine. Would be a most serious escalation.  morning discussions on @bbcworldservice I stressed priority of helping Ukraine as a stable democracy able to chart its own course.
With the one issue after the other Russia is delaying or blocking  @OSCE mission to Ukraine. We should have been there long time ago.
Cabinet meeting at the start of this day. Ukraine discussion before PM Reinfeldt heads for Brussels and European Council there later today.
Had a meeting and discussion with all the women Ambassadors in Stockholm.  support package to Ukraine must go hand in hand with deep economic reforms. Long overdue. But could give Ukraine a new start.
Sweden is preparing a Nordic-Baltic financial support package for Ukraine in coordination with IMF. We will make substantial contribution.
Today US VP Biden visits Vilnius for talks with Lithuanian and Latvian leaders. Saw Polish and Estonian leaders in Warsaw yesterday.
Nearly six years ago Russia occupied South Ossetia in Georgia. Splendid words were uttered. Today it's mostly misery.  celebration of Nevruz here in Stockholm tonight. Thousands of happy people. Light, fire and hope. Norouzetan Pirouz!
Was interviewed on @BBCWorld on reaction to fast Russian annexation of Crimea. What's next? Russia is now an unpredictable power.
Just had a very productive meeting with Moldova Speaker Igor Corman and his parliamentary delegation.  Friday, EU heads of state and government will sign the political parts of the Association Agreement with Ukraine in Brussels.
President Putin moves fast to take over Crimea also formally.  This confirms his profound challenge to international law and global order.
New round of nuclear talks with Iran FM @JZarif in Vienna today. We clearly need fewer conflicts in our world.
Too early to judge what the Kremlin finally intends to do with Crimea. I guess we will get clearer view tomorrow.
And now we are heading back to Stockholm. Awaiting further developments in the Russia and Ukraine crisis. Ready for additional measures.
EU repeats call for Russia to immediately withdraw its forces in Ukraine back to pre-crisis numbers and garrisons.  discussion with EU FM's on energy policies. Russian behaviour clearly causing rethink in a number of countries. But change takes time.
OpEd with Denmark FM @martinlidegaard on what Ukraine means for European energy policy.  Russia proposal on Ukraine smells somewhat like dream of repetition of February 1945 deals on fate of Poland.
Apart from restrictions on individuals today we are discussing readiness for further measures against Russia if there is no de-escalation.
Started EU FM's meeting now. Was late to Friends of Ukraine meeting because of snow in Stockholm. Ukraine obviously in focus also today.
Slightly new twist to diplomacy with threat to turn US into "radioactive waste". Russian TV propaganda surpassing itself.
Very early wheels up from the sudden snow of Stockholm. First Friends of Ukraine and the EU FM's regular meeting in Brussels today.
EU very clear on illegal and illegitimate so called referendum on Crimea.  called referendum in Crimea is irregular and unconstitutional. A political show to give face of legitimacy to Russian military invasion.
I welcome this key step for true internationalisation of Internet. Will facilitate @OurInternetGCIG work.  FM @AndriiDesh already on the way to Brussels. We have Friends of Ukraine meeting there early tomorrow morning. Chart the way ahead.
Important parliamentary election in Serbia today. The country needs a strong commitment to economic reforms and EU accession negotiations.
@alexstubb True. But I would argue that's probably the least of the challenges we are now facing.
No viable arguments against EU imposing an arms embargo on Russia. EU already stated that the country has committed an act of aggression.
At UN Security Council 13 nations vote against Crimea so called referendum. China abstains. Russia vetoes. Voice of world is clear.
Impressive pictures from Moscow today. There is another Russia.  than 9 million people have been forced to flee their homes in three years of Syria conflict. #WithSyria  day. Home in Stockholm. Lengthy interview in @sverigesradioP1 soon. Ukraine crisis in focus. Also Syria three years after war start.
Three years since start of war in Syria. Horrible humanitarian situation. We must commit to ending it. #WatchSyria  we have the so called local defence groups in Crimea also deploying artillery. Clearly Russian forces.  Russia statement after yesterday's events in Donetsk. Also total distortion of what really happened.  was very broad support for the statement on Russian actions in Ukraine that I delivered in Parliament today.  no progress in talks about Russian actions in Ukraine in London today. So called referendum on Crimea goes ahead.
Will give statement to Parliament on Russia and Ukraine now.
Very worrying with deaths in Donetsk. Pro-Russia thugs very active. Important to avoid any provocation.
Will start my day with EU Committee in Parliament, but at 12:00 I'm giving a statement in Parliament on situation with Russia and Ukraine.
We see that major independent news sites are now being blocked in Russia.
@oecd has postponed activities related to the accession process of the Russian to the  see all the EU Ambassadors in Stockholm to discuss our common challenges. Not difficult to guess what will dominate the discussion.
The Chief Rabbi of Kyiv and Ukraine counters propaganda statements on anti-semitism wave in Ukraine.      in Stockholm. Sunny and nice. Cabinet meeting. Will brief on Ukraine crisis, Russia aggression and EU efforts.
And here also video of my interview on Ukraine in @cnbcworld yesterday.  the Channel Four interview in its entirety on Ukraine, UK and Europe.  Channel Four interview I warned of weakening Europe in view of what's happening towards our East and our South.  taking off for Stockholm. Briefing cabinet tomorrow morning on Russia and Ukraine. And informing Parliament on the situation on Friday.
Sounds as if Kremlin is questioning the legality of the Belavezha Accords on dissolution of the Soviet Union. If correct truly remarkable.
It was a day also of intense media interest. Here another TV interview in the sun outside the Houses of Parliament.  change Ukraine's borders: Swedish minister".  as expected, very good talks with @WilliamJHague  in the rather distinguished rooms of the FCO in London.  visit to London must include a visit to @hatchards bookstore. And interview with @monocle 24 radio. Here combined.  spring weather in London. Daffodils are out in St James's Park.  productive talks at @EBRD with President Chakrabarti and his leadership team. Ukraine again in focus.  Parliament discusses Ukraine today. Here introduction by @BarossoEU on what Commission is doing.  interview with @louisabojesen of @cnbcworld here in London earlier today. All about Russia and Ukraine.  on the myths of Moscow's invasion of Crimea. From the Moscow Times.  for a round table with think tanks at @CERLondon on Western reaction to Russia's action. And on the future role of Britain in Europe.
Sunny morning in London. Will start the day with giving interviews with @BBCWorld as well as @CNBC on Russia's aggression against Ukraine.
Excellent that EU moves forward fast with unilateral trade provisions for Ukraine. Clear sign of support.  flights to Crimea from Kiev stopped. Only flights to Moscow allowed. Russia continues to escalate the conflict.
And now off to address a meeting on Sustainable Arctic
Shipping and Marine Operations. Sweden carries on its engagement on Arctic issues.
Lunch in London on the global net issues. Freedom on and of the net. Great interest in work of our @OurInternetGCIG commission.
Had time to briefly pass by the new Viking exhibition at the British Museum. Well worth seeing. New perspectives.  Horner was a very experienced and respected journalist. I valued him highly. The killing of him today in Kabul is a true tragedy.
These days it's actually 25 years since the web was born. A true revolution in our age.  letter of the Ukrainian Jewish community to Russia President Putin.  Stockholm early today for London. Will be two days of talks over a wide range of subjects. But Russia will be the obvious focus.
And now taking off from Luleå after most interesting day here. A dynamic and globalised part of Sweden.
End of ice breaking season for Oden already tomorrow. Very early this year. In July heading back to the Arctic.  a visit to Swedish ice breaker and Arctic research platform Oden in Luleå port. Been to North Pole 7 timre.  now meeting students at the Luleå Technological University. Everything on the agenda. I expect many questions on Russia. And EU.
Paid a visit to huge Facebook data center by Luleå. Only they gave outside of US. A hub in our rapidly growing world of hyperconnectivity.
The real minority on Crimea fear bloodshed as a result of Russian aggression.   for a day in Luleå in Northern Sweden. Discussing Europe. Visiting Facebook center. Information about Arctic and icebreaker issues.
Another day of crisis. Russia just continues. Prepares annexation of Crimea. Clearly wants regime change in Kiev. But highly likely to fail.
Russia independent media reports of Russian forces laying minefields blocking access from other parts of Ukraine to Crimea.
OSCE observers prevented from entering Crimea. And large  Russian troops movements observed. Preparations for southern Ukraine?
Here two Ambassadors on development assistance cooperation between Sweden and US.  that now also EU's Cathy Ashton visits Iran and tries to pursue dialogue. Hardliners probably not happy.  the clampdown on the media on Crimea has started in earnest. I fear more will come.  perhaps "the best parallel is with Prague’s Velvet Revolution of 1989". Ukraine seeks its new future.  mood on the Nordic Cyprus seminar in Brussels today. On all the opportunities of reunified Cyprus.  taking off from Tallinn after very good NB8/V4 meeting in Narva and interesting day also otherwise in northeastern Estonia.
Striking and attractive contrast between old Town Hall and the ultramodern college building in Narva.  @sikorskiradek by the Narva river looking at Russia on the other side.  impressed with plans to renovate fascinating historic Krenholm area in Narva.   our press conference here in Narva we call for an EU monitoring mission to the different parts of Ukraine.  somber atmosphere in our discussion here in Narva on the security situation in Europe. We must reflect deeper on consequences.
Morning in Narva. The old Swedish City Hall has miraculously survived all the wars of this historic city.  of risk of bloodshed on Crimea from @AstridThors of OSCE after her visit.  EU reaction against Russia aggression in Ukraine by our heads of state and government in Brussels today,  off for dinner with all Baltic, Nordic and Visegrad FM's in old Narva Castle. Looking into Russia. Discussing Ukraine.
Danish and Swedish aircraft now wheels up from Donetsk. Heading for Tallinn in Estonia.  vote today in occupied parliament obviously escalates the crisis. EU appeal on Monday for de-escalation steps wasn't heard.
Calm and confident atmosphere today in Donetsk. Some violent pro-Russian thugs yesterday at demonstration. But police maintains order.
Very good talks with Governor Sergey Taruta and key industrialist Rinat Ahmetov here in sunny Donetsk. Strong support for United Ukraine.
З нетерпінням чекаю на можливість знову відвідати Донецьк. Донбас відіграє ключову роль у відродженні української економіки.
С нетерпением жду возможности снова посетить Донецк. Донбасс играет ключевую роль в возрождении украинской экономики.
Donets is the hearth of the important industrial region of Donbass. Key to the economy also of Ukraine. Big European potential.
Gray early morning by the mighty Dnepr. Now off to the heart of Eastern Ukraine in Donets together with @martinlidegaard.
Good US summary of the different false Russian propaganda statements on Ukraine.  so many times before it was an honour to meet legendary Crimea Tatar leader Mustafa Cemilev.  moving to see the stories of the young people of the Maidan brutally killed by the snipers.  to midnight here just finished meeting with Ukraine Finance Minister Sjlapak. Desperate financial situation. Reforms and help needed.
Meeting with the Acting President of Ukraine Oleksandr Turchynov. Support for constitutional development.  me and @Martin Lidegaard paying tribute to the victims on the Maidan earlier today.  giving their tribute to those killed on the Maidan.  looks very different today from when I was here last time. And a hundred persons lost their lives here.  is actually closer to Stockholm than Brussels us. Not by much, but still.
Now wheels up for Kiev and talks there. Hope to be able to start visit by going to Institutskaya vul and honour those that lost their lives.
In Kiev later today I hope to be able to see also friend Mustafa Cemilev. Situation of Tatars the real minority issue on Crimea. @CrimeaEU
Interesting. Moscow professor sacked after saying "This Has Already Happened" on Crimea occupation.  forward to going to Kiev for talks tomorrow with Denmark FM @martinlidegaard and meeting also Norway FM @borgebrende there.
Now the Royal a Palace for meeting with Royal Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs with also parliamentary leaders. Will brief on Ukraine.
In midst of Ukraine crisis, debates in Parliament also on first Turkey and then Bosnia. Certainly important issues as well.
Russia Today anchor Abby Martin speaks out against Russian invasion of Crimea.  Ukraine now has got its own Quisling. Sitting on foreign soil begging a foreign army to give his country to him.
And now wheels up back to Stockholm. We had a remarkable unity of views in EU today on gravity of actions Russia has taken against Ukraine.
Did quick interview with @cnn after our EU meetings. Stressed also the grave threat of further Russian aggressive acts against Ukraine.
EU states that what we have seen from Russia against Ukraine is "aggression".
Members of Russia Presidential Council on Human Rights consider invasion of Ukraine "completely inappropriate".  blocks Ukraine websites giving views different from the heavy state propaganda in Russia. A telling sign.  remarks to the media on entering building of emergency EU meeting on Russia and Ukraine.  wheels up for Brussels and emergency EU meeting. We must clearly condemn the Russian invasion of Ukraine on Crimea.
Suspension of preparations for G8 Summit in Sochi in June clear political signal to Russia.   trends in Iran at the moment, but loosening internet restrictions clearly an encouraging one.  discussing the situation on the Crimea, one should never forget the Crimean Tatars and their rights.  Russian forces demands that Ukraine forces in Crimea surrender weapons it's clearly a military occupation that is taking place.
On the centenary of 1914, we are suddenly in a Europe of invasion, aggression and threats of massive use of military force.
US says "Russia’s clear violation of Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity ... breach of international law"  FM's for emergency meeting on Ukraine Monday. Worst European crisis since a long time back. We need a strong EU in an unstable Europe.
Russian military intervention in Ukraine is clearly against international law and principles of European security.   also with Ukraine PM Yatsenjuk on the acute situation. Resist provocations, but preserve and uphold Ukraine state rights everywhere.
In contact with Ukraine Acting FM Deshchytsia as well as EU colleagues on the evolving situation also in Crimea.
No country has the right to intervene militarily in the local issues of another sovereign country. That's a fundamental principle.
Obvious that there is Russian military intervention in Ukraine. Likely immediate aim is to set up puppet pro-Russian semi state in Crimea.
I fear we see a scenario we have seen before playing out in Crimea now. Russia establishing new gray zones and frozen conflicts.
Crimea situation alarming. Russia must immediately withdraw forces it controls to agreed base area. Simferopol is clearly outside this area
Conflict in Crimea must be averted.  All must fully respect territorial integrity, international agreements and rule of law.
Landed in Stockholm after long day over Siberia. Flight touched on the Arctic sea. Much to follow up in Europe.
@NATOSource I think you better check that quote...
Leaving Tokyo on JAL 787 heading back to Europe. A long day over Siberia ahead.  to our marvellous Embassy here for all their work with my days in Tokyo.  presented Japan FM Kishida with a Spotify account with some good contemporary Swedish music.
Checking out from iconic Okura hotel in downtown Tokyo. One of my distinct global favourites.    things are as delightful as a Japanese garden. Here at the International House in Tokyo this afternoon.  talked from Tokyo with new Italy FM @FedericaMog. Congratulated. Updated on Ukraine situation. Looks forward to next meeting.
Somewhat surprising, but @rtcom delivers a reasonably balanced account of background to the Crimea issues.  would urge Yanukovich to immediately return to Kiev, explain why he abandoned his position and declare all his financial interests.
Serms as if Viktor Yanukovich now has confirmed that he has abandoned his position and fled his country. By all standards has thus resigned.
Most of our discussion with Japan FM Kishida was over developments in Ukraine and relations with China. Informative and constructive.
Photo looks very formal, but we had an extremely good and constructive meeting and dinner with Japan FM Kishida.  passed restaurant "Belarus Home Cooking" here in Tokyo. The world is getting smaller. Unfortunately have another dinner.
Priority for new Ukraine government must be to get to the root of all corrupt structures. Billions can be saved. Decent governance started.
Good that @MiroslavLajcak and V4 colleagues are also heading to Kiev today. Support to new government in everyone's interest.
スウェーデンから日本への音楽の輸出は良好だ。ABBAからAviciiまで、日本からスウェーデンへの音楽の輸出の12倍だ。
今まで19人の日本人科学者や作家がノーベル賞受賞のためストックホルムを訪れた。今後も日本人受賞者がスウェーデンを訪れるだろう。
日本の音楽産業の市場規模は世界第二位だ。スウェーデンからの輸出拡大の可能性がある分野だ。
Excellent that EU:s Cathy Ashton will be back in Kiev already on  Monday for discussions with the new government.
Japan is the 2nd largest music industry market in the world. Strong potential for further Swedish exports.
19 Japanese scientists and authors have made the trip to Stockholm to receive the Nobel prize. Sure there are more to come.
Swedish music export to Japan is strong. From Abba to Avicii. 12 times the Japanese music export to Sweden.
Meeting with Swedish companies in Tokyo. Encouraging to see that new innovation entrepreneurs are coming here. Market open for new thinking.
New start for Ukraine will require a broad coalition for reforms and strong political leadership. And international support will be there.
After two decades of truly failed policies Ukraine's GDP per capita is still below what it was in 1989 and only 10% of the EU average.
This is the time for Ukraine to get a truly new start with truly radical reforms. Then it can recover ground lost during past decades.
No doubt @YatsenyukAP takes over a most challenging situation as new Ukraine PM. Last regime took country to ruin. IMF and others must help
The darkness of North Korea vividly obvious in this image of the region from space.  interview in bookstore with Yomiuri newspaper. Great interest in Ukraine issue and China developments.  in one of the world's most beautiful bookstores - Tsutaya Books here in Tokyo. Could have stayed.  to 40 million people in wider urban area of Tokyo. Biggest in the world. But the air is clear and traffic flows smoothly. Can be done.
Nice to be in the clear air of Tokyo. And now I'm off to meeting with new National Security Council.  to leave China after four days in Shanghai, Shandong and Beijing. Tokyo/Haneda next destination.  downtown Beijing early in the morning. Looking at @BeijingAir it looks as if air pollution went through the roof during the night.
Also the official Chinese news agency has highlighted the response to my Weibo tweet on the air pollution.   we have also discuss need for deeper dialogue between EU and China on global climate issues prior to 2015 COP meeting in Paris.
Air pollution has got worse during the day says @BeijingAir. Could well be record levels. Everyone talks about it. Rapidly growing issue.
Lasf formal meeting here was with Ms. Fu Ying who chairs the Foreign Affairs Committee of the National People's Congress. Good as always.
Min "tweet" på kinesiska Weibo om luftföroreningarna har nu lett till publicitet i bl a Folkets Dagblad här. Och ner.  an open, good and constructive meeting with China FM Wang Yi this morning. All issues on the table.  in Beijing. Pollution at dangerous levels @BeijingAir. Starting my day with seeing China FM Wang Yi. Bilateral and global issues.
It us highly disturbing that Uganda President now has signed and approved the highly controversial anti-gay legislation.
OSCE High Commissioner on National Minorities cautions Ukraine authorities on respect for national minorities.   meeting with Shandong Governor Guo - 95 m people - we are now on the fast train heading for Beijing.  modern SKF factory in Jinan. It's one of the 17 SKF has throughout China with more than 6.000 employees  a visit to the traditional mountain of Taishan I'm now on the way to visit new SKF factory in Jinan.  that Cathy Ashton from EU is in Ukraine today. We want to listen to see how we can help the country get the new start necessary.
Congratulations to Estonia on its Independence Day.
My day here in Shandong started with visiting the tomb of Confucius in Qufu. Lived and worked 500 BC.  been decidedly bad days for Lenin statues in Ukraine recently. You might ask why there were still there.  Congratulations! I understand from those more knowledgable than me that it was well deserved.
@HonJohnBaird Well, let's see...
Been in touch with EU's Catherine Ashton on immediate action related to Ukraine. We must support formation of inclusive government.
Earlier today in Shanghai with our Ambassador Lars Fredén and Consul General Viktoria Li. Spring in the air  is the city where Confucius was born and lived 2.500 years ago and left his lasting and strong impression on the development of China.
It was certainly impressive to ride with the fast modern Chinese train to Qufu, where I am at the moment.  taking the very fast and modern train three hours from Shanghai to Qufu in the Shandong province. Impressive.
Remarkable that Viktor Yanukovich simple fled from and abandoned his functions and duties. Rada is today the legitimate state institution.
Breakfast with Swedish business representatives high above most of the Shanghai skyline.  is certainly following the rapidly evolving situation in Ukraine minute by minute.  lesson of revolutions is the need to immediately focus on the day after. And the day thereafter. Otherwise risk everything goes wrong.
New Ukraine government needs both radical economic reform package and radical international support efforts.  Need to move fast.
I warmly welcome that UN Security Council finally decides resolution on humanitarian rights and access in Syria. Unanimous.
It is imperative that agreed new government in Ukraine is formed urgently to secure order, safeguard integrity and start reforms.
The territorial integrity of Ukraine is fundamental. It is guaranteed by Russia and all other European countries.
If Yanukovich still President of Ukraine he has a duty to sign decisions of the Rada also putting agreement concluded into force.
Fascinating dinner discussing challenges of China. But also trying to keep in touch with Ukraine events.  ended #scf13 discussions here, and they were probably the best we have had since we started these dialogues on China in Stockholm 2007.
Panels at #scf13 show high level of political tension between China and Japan. Always risk that mistrust in crisis leads to miscalculation.
And of course great appreciation to @emmabonino for all her contributions as FM of Italy!
I congratulate @FedericaMog on becoming new FM of Italy.
@12vpn Thanks again! It works!
Early morning in Shanghai. Looks grey. Checking news from Europe. Soon discussion at Stockholm China Forum on relations China/EU/US.
Now confirmed that President Yanukovich tried to get the Army as well to move against protesters. He wanted same in 2004 but was stopped.
Congratulations also to @sikorskiradek @LaurentFabius and FM Steinmeier for successful and important diplomatic effort in Kiev.
It remains important that those responsible for killings and human rights violations in Ukraine are brought to justice.
Congratulations on political agreement now signed in Kiev. New government with new powers must now tackle also massive economic challenges.
Arrived in Shanghai. Talked to Canada FM @HonJohnBaird on visit in Australia on our EU Ukraine efforts at the moment.
@12vpn Thanks. Will try.
Did interview also with @cnn on Ukraine situation and possible moves forward after boarding the plane here in Munich.
Leaving for China means going to an area where Twitter is blocked. A true shame. But you might not hear from me here for a couple of days.
Taking off on flights that hopefully will bring me some time tomorrow to Shanghai. But slightly tight with time after long Brussels meeting.
White House calls for Yanukovich to withdraw security forces from downtown Kiev and for protests to be peaceful. Would be important step.
At our FM meeting here in Brussels we also gave total support to the political efforts of our three colleagues in Kiev.
Scope of implementation of EU measures will be taken forward in light of developments in Ukraine.
EU decides as a matter of urgency on asset freeze and visa ban on those responsible for violence and excessive force in Kiev.
Here my remarks to Swedish Parliament published also in Ukrainska Pravda.   had very brief remarks as I arrived at the EU building here in Brussels. The situation is extremely serious.  up for Brussels with Estonia FM @urmaspaet. I suspect meeting on Ukraine will be delayed. Troika mission in Kiev should be priority.
At least a good start of the talks with Iran on a comprehensive nuclear deal. Intense schedule coming months.  with a European observer by the Maidan in Kiev. No doubt live ammunition used. Many casualties. Need for fast medical help.
Truly alarming development in Kiev. We repeat our call for all to avoid violence and for regime to initiate truly honest political process.
Among everything else, our work for freedom on and of the net remains a priority.  my day in Stockholm with cabinet meeting. Then to Brussels for EU meeting on Ukraine. And then onwards towards Shanghai.
"EU helping freedom fighters in Ukraine".  pressure forces President Yanukovich into temporary truce. But is he ready for political and democratic solution? So far not.
Very soon on @AlJazeera to talk about the dramatic situation in Ukraine and the EU efforts to stop violence and support democracy.
@mfarussia Agree. Was not official Russia statement. But coup d'etat certainly was.
Why does President Yanukovich suddenly fire the Commander of the Ukraine Army?  Reason clearly related to present crisis. Ominous sign.
Russia @mfarussia talks about "attempted coup d'etat" and need for "anti-terrorist operation" in Ukraine. It's chilling to hear.
Excellent that @sikorskiradek is heading to Kiev already tonight. We just coordinated. Voice of Europe must be clear and strong.
Talked also with @bbcworldservice on European reaction to the violence and repression in Ukraine.
Before my official annual foreign policy statement in Parliament today, I had these words to say about Ukraine.  interviewed on BBC World TV on tragic and dramatic situation in Ukraine.  that Catherine Ashton has now called the FM's of EU to an extraordinary meeting in Brussels tomorrow at 14:00.
Yesterday in Brussels seven nations signed the charter to set up new European Institute for Peace @Eurpeace
Here is our government statement on foreign policy presented in parliament today.  policy debate in Parliament today. Strong unity in condemning violence and deaths in Kiev. Support for European dream for Ukraine.
We must be clear: Ultimate responsibility for deaths and violence is with President Yanukovich. He has blood on his hands.
Only person who can now stop catastrophe in Ukraine is President Yanukovich. His vacillation and violence responsible for situation.
Regime seems to have shut down Channel 5 independent TV station in Ukraine. Regime repression and violence unacceptable.
EU will not hesitate on measures against interests of persons associated with repression and violence in Ukraine.
Reports now that nine persons have been killed in Kiev today. Everyone has responsibility to take country back from brink of catastrophe.
Everyone in Ukraine has a responsibility to secure a peaceful and non-violent solution after the tragic deaths of this day.
Highly worrying news from Kiev. Everyone must avoid every form of violence. Only dialogue and democracy can bring a solution.
I'm worried by renewed outbreak of fighting in South Sudan. Everyone must respect ceasefire and move towards political solution.
We are looking at strengthening the Swedish contribution to the @ununisma peacekeeping operation in Mali.
I warmly welcome the signing of the border agreement between Estonia and Russia today.
Important and encouraging meeting between Estonia and Russia FM's Paet and Lavrov in Moscow today. Good relations important for all.
Staring this sunny day with meeting of Royal Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs chaired by HM King and with Parliament leaders.
Today in Vienna start of talks on comprehensive Iran nuclear agreement. Will be possible with genuine will to compromise on both sides.
Saw that three rockets were fired towards Timbuktu in Mali late yesterday. This highlight challenges for @UNMINUSMA and peace process.
UN NoKorea report: Gravity, scale and nature of these violations reveal a State that does not have any parallel in the contemporary world.
Devastating report on grave crimes against human rights in North Korea. Important to put on the international agenda.  returning to Stockholm. Today we have visit by Norway PM @ernasolberg. Important day for Norway with @grunnloven200 celebrations.
25 years these days since the Soviet Union left Afghanistan. Have the lessons been learnt?  to our efficient Swedish Embassy staff in Bamako for the visit. Women make a difference!  in Timbuktu is assisted by efficient UN forces from Burkina Fasso. Important to protect people.  reception here in Bamako tonight. Listen to persons in different peace operations. But then starting the journey back to Sweden.
But the beautiful cultural heritage of Timbuktu is to a large extent still there. Peace has come.  Ukraine-operated and Swedish-built aircraft took us all the way to Timbuktu in the Sahara.  of destruction and vandalism are unfortunately still there. But gradually people are coming back.  mosques of Timbuktu - world heritage sites - are now protected by @unminusma forces.  in Timbuktu how jihadist had destroyed mausoleums and desecrated tombs. Bitter legacy.  in Bamako from a day in Timbuktu. Fascinating dialogue also with civil society representatives.  day of talks here in Mali. Political process with reconciliation and development in vast Northern areas of the country must accelerate.
Good that US is now stepping up its engagement on cooperation in Arctic Council. Will take over as chair in 2015.  days of political talks here in Bamako with Mali state leadership and UN and EU. Now for somewhat more relax dinner by Niger River.
Is it normal that US wins over Russia in ice hockey? I'm just asking.
In Mali 65% is 25 years or younger. At independence in 1960 country had 3 million inhabitants. Today 15 million. And growing very fast.
I congratulate @GebranBassil on being appointed new Foreign Minister of Lebanon.
I welcome that efforts to form a new government in Lebanon have now been crowned with success. Very important for stability of the country.
Had an interesting meeting with Mali President Keïta this afternoon. Prospects for peace process in focus.  Keïta presented us with a beautiful Tuareg art work from Northern Mali. Much appreciated.  intervention a year ago was successful in preventing catastrophe. But now focus on long-term peace building with UN and EU efforts.
There were successful talks here yesterday as part of Mali peace process. But there was also people killed in city of Gao. Peace takes time.
EU training mission important for security. But primarily @UNMINUSMA to bring peace and stability to Mali.
Peace operations after 2013 conflict important for stability of entire Sahel region. But also huge development and humanitarian challenges.
Start of my day in Bamako. Looks like being a very warm day. First breakfast with Mali FM Zahabi. Full day with also UN and EU operations.
And now about to take off for the long flight to Bamako in Mali. Looking forward to interesting days.  distinctly gray weather day in Europe. Done Stockholm, Amsterdam and now Paris. Same thing. No sun in sight.
On my way to Stockholm airport on this distinctly grey day. Will spend the rest of this day getting to Bamako in Mali.
Clear that Russia intends to force Ukraine into its own union. Kremlin advisor as usual candid on intentions.  days today to elections to European Parliament. Key possibility to get voice and influence in EU. Hope for a vigorous debate.
From the EU point of view, the neighbourhoods of the neighbourhood is rapidly growing in importance. We need to augment our policies.
Tomorrow I'm off to Mali to visit and look at UN and and EU peace operations there. The Sahel region is of growing importance and concern.
A window of freedom to the world looks like being closed in Kiev. Part of a pattern?   and necessary with a day in Stockholm. Starting with the weekly cabinet meeting. Always issues that must be adressed.
I like my Icelandic sweater. Will actually buy another one on my next visit fairly soon.  speaks up on Internet governance. Good input to our work in @OurInternetGCIG.  all Nordic Foreign and Defence Ministers in front of Finnish NH90 at Keflavik some hours ago.  we Swedish and Finnish ministers are taking off from Keflavik after a most successful meeting on Nordic security cooperation.
But we saw also the Norwegian F16 pilots from Bodö who are part of our common training here.  DefMin Karin Enström and Swedish JAS pilots at Keflavik Air base at Iceland Air Meet.  with Nordic FM's. Then to Kefkavik and Iceland Air Meet. Important step for security cooperation.  on Reykjavik. Not a minute too early. And now dinner with all Nordic colleagues in House of Culture here. The Nordic world together.
Finally on our way to Iceland and the meeting with FM's and DefMin's of Nordic countries. Increased cooperation a priority for us all.
Stranded in Brussels. Aircraft evidently not working. A nuisance of the first order. Not entirely easy to get to Iceland.
It's good that the message from the EU seems to have been heard by the authorities in Cairo. That was the intention.  warmly welcome that talks on overcoming division of Cyprus will now be resumed. Key European issue to solve.  now for brainstorming with @ECFR on future of our Eastern Partnership policy. Focus on the summit in Riga in May 2015. Planning ahead.
Breakfast coordination with @EPP. European elections coming. Meet the expectations of people across Europe. Good to see @alexstubb.
Dinner in EAS building with FM's from EU candidate countries. Good discussion on Bosnia and other issues with @ADavutoglueng and others.
The inconvenient truth about advantages of free movement for all in Europe. Switzerland and UK take particular note.  states that no political group in Egypt should be banned as long as they renounce violence and respect democratic principles.
Very clear that EU is concerned with the deteriorating human rights situation in Egypt. Indiscriminate detention of political opposition.
Good that now also Council of Europe is taking up the issue of the new Turkey Internet laws.  concerned with ramped up misinformation campaign in Russian media against EU, Ukraine and Eastern Partnership. Not a good sign.
Was very nice to see new Denmark FM @martinlidegaard here in Brussels. Will spend next few days together here and in Iceland.
And here my arrival and doorstep remarks to the media prior to today's meeting.  EU meeting with short exchange on Bosnia. Economic and social failures at root. Policy focus has often been on the wrong issues.
Now with "Friends of Moldova" on how we can increase support for country's European reform path. Destabilisation attempts disturbing.
On my way to breakfast with other Nordic and Baltic FM's. We share a common approach on most of the issues on the European agenda.
Brussels again! Avalanche of FM's arriving at the airport. Series of meetings today.  takeoff from Stockholm in order to get to Brussels and meeting of EU FM's. Will be a long day.
EU will now examine implications for bilateral relations of coming Swiss restrictions on freedom of  like there has been good progress in talks between IAEA and Iran in the last few days.  to the West under attack by hardliners in Iran. And opening to Iran under attack by hardliners in the West.  massive rally at Euromaidan in Kiev. Ukrainians wants a decent and democratic government and European reforms.  would have loved to be able to better follow first TV debate between candidates in Afghan presidential election.  a 1992 referendum Switzerland rejected a EEA agreement with EU. Now the package of bilateral agreements is at risk.
New UN report shows increase in civilians killed in Afghanistan. Overwhelmingly by anti-government groups.  eyes on Switzerland today and its referendum on immigration policies. Will it close its door to Europe?  to hear that the archives in the Presidency building in Sarajevo are mostly intact after the fire.
Was interviewed by @bbcpersian earlier today. Impressed by the large following it has inside Iran. Window to the world.
Here is why Sweden rocks the global music scene.  shame that valuable archives in Bosnia have been destroyed. What was preserved in war was destroyed by riots.  Presidency building was preserved during the brutal war years. Violence and arson to attack it now is inexcusable.  discontent with stagnant political scene in Bosnia seems to be spilling into the streets.  at Royal Palace with HM King and HRH Crown Princess to discuss upcoming different international visits. State visit to Latvia next.
Tapping phone calls and releasing carefully selected bits to support propaganda efforts is an age-old methods by some type of regimes.
Off to Parliament to brief on preparations for EU FM's meeting on Monday. Ukraine and Egypt likely to be at centre of discussions there.
Also EU must raise our serious concern over the new Turkey Internet law.   off from Istanbul after a couple of hours waiting here. Sun over the Sea of Marmara. Friends on way from Bagdad also at the flight.
Interesting insight in political struggles in Iran today. President wanted female journalist as well. Twitter debate.  was certainly worth a visit. Started my Iran visit there. Used to be called "half of the world".  have been asked for the photo I took of the media at our press conference in Teheran. Here it is.  Istanbul after days in Iran. Here photos from my meeting Tuesday with Iran President @HassanRouhani.   had talks on extensive use of death penalty in Iran. In many cases heavy drug offenders. But death sentence is always unacceptable.
Dinner with diplomats and others in Teheran tonight to try to round up three days of talks here. Tomorrow I will be heading home again.
And another day of snow falling over Tehreran. Here in northern and higher part of the huge city lots of it. Muddy but beautiful.
New day of talks in Teheran. Deep gulf of mistrust towards  the West. But strong wish to bridge gap. Many dream of a more open society.
Also talked with @UNODC on challenge of huge drug smuggling flows from Afghanistan. 80% of opium seized worldwidelast year  serized here.
Breakfast with @Refugees here in Teheran. Still close to a million Afghan refugees from war decades ago. Huge burden. We are helping.
After a day in Isfahan, and high-level talks here yesterday, I continue with a second day of talks here in Teheran today. Snow like at home.
Nuclear talks key to much. Requires good will from both sides. Failure will lead to confrontation and more closed society.Much at stake.
Human rights must be a key part of any new dialogue. We must be firm. But a more open relationship on other issues would help here as well.
We from the EU should engage in a new and broad dialogue with Iran. Build new trust over the gulfs of mistrust of the past. Encourage change
I get a strong sense of a society searching for a new and more open future. But we should not underestimate the forces resisting change .
It's rather bizarre with both the President and FM @jzarif on Twitter, but still these barriers. I pointed it out as we talked yesterday.
This morning I finally managed to get hold of a VPN to break through the cyber barriers for Twitter here in Iran! That's what people do.
Taking off for Isfahan in Iran after a couple of hours of interesting talks with friends in Istanbul. Isfahan has UNESCO World Heritage.
Soon taking off from Munich after most successful #msc50 for Istanbul. Then after some hours with talks there onwards to my days in Iran.
Final session in Munich on Iran with also FM @JZarif. All agreed we need to give diplomacy a chance. #msc50  this morning here at @MunSecConf between US and Iran FM's Kerry and @JZarif. Dialogue moves on. #msc50
EU's Cathy Ashton with PM's of Serbia and Kosovo after 220 hours of successful dialogue for peace. #msc50  opposition leader Klitschko laying out his democratic vision. Ask for elections. #msc50  FM Kozhara  spoke about country's possible bankruptcy. Yes, its finances is a black hole, and it urgently needs deep reforms. #msc50
It was Russian action from August onwards that destabilised Ukraine by seeking to block its European aspirations. #msc50
The wisdom and wit of Henry Kissinger dominates as he debates here 50 years after he was first time at @MunSecConf. #msc50
Henry Kissinger and Egon Bahr returns to some of the most tricky nuclear dilemmas of a once divided Germany and Europe. #msc50
Henry Kissinger: If West Berlin would have been attacked there was no question but US would have gone to war. #msc50
A panel with Henry Kissinger and Helmut Schmidt on security issues and lessons of 1914 is about as good as it gets. #msc50
Ran into UN SG Ban Ki-moon and expressed the hope that we will see him also in Sweden at some time. We are strong supporter of UN efforts.
France FM Fabius asked why EU Battle Groups have not been used. But France did not want it used in Central African Republic. #msc50
Good with text of @IlvesToomas speech on cyber issues here at @MunSecConf. #msc50   FM Lavrov argues against "information warfare". Has he seen Moscow state media on Ukraine? He also attacked Kiev protesters. #msc50
In his Munich speech this morning @euHvR says that in Ukraine time is on our side. The future of Ukraine is with a democratic Europe. #msc50
An evening truly torn between Syria options discussion and talks with Ukraine opposition leaders converging on Munich. #msc50
Truly outrageous what some authorities in Ukraine did to Dmytro Bulatov. This must not go unpunished. There are European commitments.
Optimism, realism or pessimism on panel on Middle East peace prospects? A bit of all. #Msc50  with agreement during @MunSecConf to restart nuclear talks with Iran in Vienna Febr 18. Very important to keep momentum. #msc50
Tony Blair argues passionately that the Palestinian issue remains at the core of the search for peace in entire wider Middle East. #msc2014
Good that @IlvesToomas strongly takes issue with those using recent surveillance issues as an excuse to take control of the net. #msc50
In Germany there is something called "Grundsatzrede". Fundamental policy speech. Just heard one. Will shape debate in the country. #msc50
Impressive speech by Germany President Gauck at @MunSecConf. Calling for more engagement with and responsibility in international affairs.
Interesting and thought-provoking study on resources issues presented by BMW Foundation at @MunSecConf.   with @globalzero at @MunSecConf on tactical nuclear weapons in Europe. Mutual reductions and withdrawals desirable.
I look forward to talks with friends from Ukraine and Euromaidan here at @MunSecConf. We must also react against kidnappings and beatings.
Armenia now faces rise in food prices and other difficult consequences after abandoning EU agreement.  morning. Still dark. Soon takeoff for @MunSecConf. Ukraine and Iran are likely to be two issues at the centre of the discussions.
Tomorrow I'm off to the @MunSecConf for two intense days of dialogue on common foreign and security policy challenges. Always stimulating.
Question time in Parliament. Here Deputy PM Björklund answers questions on education issues.  by new assessment: "Sweden has shown leadership on a wide range of issues – putting it on a par with the E3" #ECFRScorecard
Thursday morning. Regular cabinet meeting. Snow falling over Stockholm. City in white and gray.
Three hunger emergencies today require massive efforts by @WFP and others to try to bring help.  that the Kremlin is once again stepping up economic measures against Ukraine. Comes only days after summit with EU in Brussels.
PM's of Central Europe nations are - rightly - strongly supportive of a democratic, sovereign and European Ukraine.  must heed the lessons of 1914." By Germany FM Steinmeier.  Rhyme of History - Lessons from the Great War. By Margaret MacMillan.  great site on 1914 and the beginning of the First World War. Lessons to learn?  Security Council authorises EU force to help in Central African Republic. UN force also needed.   has a free trade agreement with Russia. Threats to scrap this just because Ukraine wants free trade also with EU is very strange.
Ukraine agreement with EU will obviously be of benefit to Russia as well. A better Ukraine economy is good for all its neighbours.
Inspiring to meet and discuss with all the impressive young persons now starting their careers with us.  period" in relations between EU and Russia but still summit meeting in Brussels today.  warmly welcome the decision in Ukraine Rada some minutes ago to cancel the package of repressive laws. Hope for further steps.
Critical day in Kiev. Repressive laws should go. Free and fair elections prepared. European reform road only possible road forward.
Great meeting with Foreign Policy Association at Linköping University. Great interest. Great questions.  visit also to the Helicopter Wing here in Linköping to discuss international operations. Key resource.  is a close partner of UNHCR in helping to tackle the refugee challenges across the world.  year 54.000 persons asked for asylum in Sweden. And we have received app 30.000 refugees from Syria since the start of the war there.
Had excellent meetings with heads of our Migration Board. A world of migration, crisis and open  economies.  5.800 quota refugees via UNHCR in EU last year Sweden took 1.900. But in view also of Syria war everyone needs to do much more.
Talked with Ukraine FM Kozhara on acute situation. Repressive laws must be withdrawn. All violence and extreme action avoided. Dialogue.
Starting my day with visiting our Migration Board here in Norrköping. Migration issues more and more important in every country.
Three years after igniting process of change in Arab world Tunisia adopts its new democratic constitution.  is the International Day of Commemoration in memory of the victims of the Holocaust. Remember!  with 49 persons killed in clashes as Egypt remembers the 2011 uprising against the Mubarak dictatorship.
Leaving snowy Davos after #wef14. It has been days of diplomacy on industrial scale. Hope we have improved the state of the world.
True power sharing in Ukraine could secure free elections in 2015, constitutional changes and European economic reforms. But only if true.
A stunningly beautiful day in the Alps today! #wef14  German speakers a longer interview with me here in Switzerland today.  continues to try to help Ukraine towards a stable, democratic and European future.  with @WEFGAC discussing how to look forward on challenges next few years. Will be most important for Europe. Strong comeback? #wef14
Discussing with @OECD on how vibrant South East Asia can move beyond so called middle income trap. ASEAN integration proceeding fast. #wef14
Late for dinner with South-East Asia after good meeting with Georgia PM Garibashvili. #wef14  Kiev regime tries a military solution to this situation, it will be very bloody, and it will fail. #wef14  rapidly worsening situation in Ukraine with Petro Poroshenko. Regime repression must stop. #wef14  terror attacks in Cairo today. Unacceptable. #wef14  to moving towards peace in Syria is recognition that on present trends all sides are losing badly.  Very badly. #wef14
Have we missed opportunities to end war in Syria? Yes, probably. Why? Because global and regional actors refused to work together. #wef14
Early morning. Light snow in Davos. EU reform agenda on my breakfast agenda. Critical years ahead. #wf14
Dinner discussing @SwissOSCE2014 and the tasks ahead for cooperation and security in all of Europe. #wef14
"Stockholm call for the new diplomacy echoed around the world." #wef14  warmly welcome the ceasefire agreement in South Sudan. Must now move towards a comprehensive and stable political solution. #wef14
Irish PM Kenny tells the impressive story of how Ireland has dealt with the profound crisis and is now clearly on its way back. #wef14
Good that @BarrosoEU stresses importance of an ambitious free agenda for improved competitiveness of Europe. #wef14
Davos is Davos. Saw also President Barzani of KRG of Iraq. Excellent cooperation. #wef14  makes a dramatic difference. Economic growth of Poland versus Ukraine since 1990. #wef14  revolutionary possibilities for health and health care in the big data would of hyperconnectivity. But also challenges. #wef14
Good that @StefanFuleEU goes to Kiev tomorrow with clear EU mandate. We need to help to open a door back to democracy for Ukraine. #wef14
Just about to go live on @france24 on Iran, Syria and Ukraine. #wef14
Sweden PM Reinfeldt listening to EU Cathy Ashton on Syria situation. #wef14  briefing with Swedish cabinet ministers present in Davos discussions. #wef14  @ICRC president Maurer to discuss how we can work together on all the mounting humanitarian challenges. #wef14
Started Davos day with interview in @SRP1morgon on explosive situation in one of largest European countries - Ukraine. More to come. #wef14
Attempts to censor the net can go very wrong - as we evidently saw in China yesterday. #wef14  there is no doubt that the crisis in Ukraine is extremely serious.  that five young persons have been killed in Kiev today adds a further grave dimension to the tragedy and the crisis. #wef14
Without the Alps it would certainly be easier to travel around in Switzerland. But it’s a price well worth paying. #wef14
@OSCERFoM Rest assured - there will be!
Leaving sunny Montreux and starting journey to Davos and #wef14. Syria and Ukraine occupied every minute.  opportunity to catch up also with Mexico FM @JoseAMeadeK during Montreux Syria talks.
I have accepted to chair the important work of the independent Global Commission on Internet Governance.  #wef14
News from Kiev is increasingly grim. Regime refuses dialogue and relies on increased repression and violence. I fear further deterioration.
In spite of long list of mutual accusations and harsh words, everyone is still sitting by the table in Montreux. Success of sorts. A start.
Most unlikely we will see a breakthrough here in Montreux today. The task today rather to avoid a breakdown. And then build step by step.
Alarmed by news of demonstrators killed on the streets of Kiev. Dangerous escalation. Regime must stop repression and open for dialogue.
The High Level Geneva Conference on Syria opened this minute.  will also be to mobilise the silent majority for an end to war and suffering that I’m convinced is there inside Syria.
One lesson of Bosnia peace efforts that everyone of relevance must be part of the process. It was a mistake to disinvite Iran from Montreux.
Yes, there are indeed lessons of Bosnia of importance for the Syria peace efforts now starting.  should now be in place here in Montreux for start of Syria peace talks tomorrow. But far from clear what day will bring.
@UrbanAhlin @jgotkowska Not correct, but it was certainly me who led the debate on the issue. But others did not want to go that road.
I’m soon taking off in direction of Geneva in order to get to Montreux and the opening of the Syria peace talks there tomorrow morning.
A true pleasure to have friend and OSCE High Commissioner on National Minorities @AstridThors here.  hope for open, frank and constructive talks as Turkey PM Erdoğan visits Brussels today. We need each other.  Serbia's negotiations for EU membership finally starts. It's an important day for all of Europe.  that EU now sets the facts straight on Association Agreement with Ukraine. Much Russian propaganda against.  did I blink exactly when photo was taken? Saw @ValerieAmos at BRU airport. Many humanitarian challenges.  here my media remarks on leaving the EU building 45 minutes or so ago.  taking off and heading home to Stockholm after all Brussels meetings. But off tomorrow again.
Would have preferred EU Battle Group to CAR. If not now, then when? But now going forward with other options for EU force.
EU now suspends certain Iran sanctions. Important step forward.  Internet freedom must be high on the agenda when Turkey PM Erdogan comes to Brussels this evening and tomorrow.  light for preparations for EU military mission to Central African Republic. Helping efforts of AU, UN and regional countries.
EU FM’s expressing deep concern over repressive legislation in Ukraine and asks for it to reversed.  must start looking at effective instruments against corrupt actors manoeuvring also in the dark corners of the politics of Ukraine.
Now more than half a million refugees and displaced in South Sudan conflict. Fighting must stop.  meaningful peace process requires everyone of relevance around the table. This fundamental rule applies to Syria peace efforts as well.
Here my media remarks on CAR, Ukraine and other issues on entering the EU building.  @EPP morning meeting to seeing Nordic and Baltic FM’s prior to meeting all EU FM’s in an hour or so.
I welcome announcement in Kiev of talks to resolve the political crisis. But solution is only possible if there is no regime repression.
Open democracy and reconciliation only way forward for Ukraine. Repression and violence will sink the country.
Huge popular Maidan manifestation in defiance of repressive regime laws. Also large build-up of security forces. Violence must be avoided.
Did Skype interview with Ukraine web TV station somewhat earlier today. Here the result.  to leave a somewhat gray Zurich after discussions here. Brussels next destination.  in executions in Iran must be condemned. Drug-related offences are serious, but death sentence is unacceptable.  not about West losing Ukraine. It’s about Ukraine losing its future.  warmly welcome the decision by the Syria National Coalition to come to the peace conference starting in Montreaux on Wednesday.
Turmoil in regime in Kiev. Reports of resignations, dismissals and general uncertainty. Regime likely to try to increase repression further.
Horrible suicide attack against restaurant in Kabul. And tragic loss of life of people trying to help all Afghans to a better future.
Soon taking off for Zurich and more informal discussions there during part of weekend. Will also be in both Montreaux and Davos next week.
“It alone may not save the world, but it will help us find new ways to come together to save it.” Interview in Wired.  @EPP @kokoomus @MsElleSandberg Back to Brussels! Good luck!
Alarming developments in Ukraine must be discussed by EU FM’s in Brussels on Monday. There can be no business as usual with Kiev.
And the US also expressed its deep concern over violations of democratic rights by regime in Kiev.  EU’s Catherine Ashton deeply concerned over what we saw in Kiev yesterday. Breach of democratic commitments.  EU Committee in Parliament on preparations for meeting of EU FM’s in Brussels on Monday. Broad support for our policies.
“Welcome to Little Russia”. Kyiv Post editorial. Worth reading.  Thanks. Great event!
Was great to be at @TEDxStockholm and discuss the potential of digital diplomacy. Lots of ideas.  regime is trying to “criminalise everything the opposition has been doing in last two months.”  my way to discussions at the Stockholm Initiative for Digital Diplomacy to get ideas on how we could be even better! Lots to do. #sidd
Dark designs against democracy clearly behind what we saw in Kiev today. And ultimately against independence of Ukraine.
Outrageous the way laws severely restricting freedoms were pushed through Ukraine parliament today. Clearly forces pushing Belarus scenario.
Cabinet meeting earlier today. Reviewed economic policy developments. Coordinated with cabinet colleagues on a number of issues.
Horrible increase in the number of displaced persons in South Sudan. Crisis deepening.  is the programme for the Stockholm Initiative on Digital Diplomacy next two days. #SIDD  3.0 Starts in Stockholm”. That’s our digital diplomacy day  a good talk with new Turkey EU Minister @MevlutCavusoglu. Necessary with dialogue with EU and Council of Europe on legal changes.
Had the pleasure of receiving the new Ambassadors to Sweden from Kosovo, Azerbaijan, Vietnam and Bangladesh. Interesting talks.
In Parliament to attend the first major debate of this year of no less than four elections - EU, national, regional and local.
Tomorrow is SIDD day - Stockholm Initiative for Digital Diplomacy.   will pledge increased support to Syria humanitarian efforts at Kuwait UN conference. Hope others follow.   to note that 11 persons died in violence during first day of constitutional referendum in Egypt. Are divisions in society deepening?
Dialogue proceeding with now also EU Cathy Ashton intending to travel to Teheran. Important to explore possible openings.
Study shows that Sweden has been benefiting from migration inside wider EU. Same applies to UK and Ireland.  how we could be more active in the development of common European space policies. Increasingly important from all perspectives.
Worrying proposal in Turkey that if passed could seriously limit net freedom. Urge reconsideration.   I sincerely hope that it will be a peaceful day in Egypt today. All violence must be strongly condemned.
Referendum in Egypt today, but it will hardly resolve the political situation in the country.  if Sharon still lived?"  Interesting contribution to the debate.   Well, Cold War it was, with even risks of it getting hot…
For those interested some truly fascinating glimpses from the drama of February 1991. Here on Yeltsin and Estonia.  years ago today Soviet arms tried to turn back the tide of freedom in the Baltic states. And failed.   should use its possibilities to help in Central African Republic. Battle Groups designed for this.   that hardliners in US Congress are undercutting efforts to move forward in Iran nuclear talks. We must be able to lift sanctions.
Here on the Stockholm Initiative for Digital Diplomacy. Key event next week!  that interim nuclear agreement with Iran will enter into force January 20. EU should proceed promptly with sanctions relief.
Leaving wonderful Kiruna and heading back to Stockholm. Magic light also today.  interesting and balanced effort to assess the life of Ariel Sharon.  spectacular at the Ice Hotel. New ice art every year. People from all over the world come here.  Sharon was a great leader of Israel. A brilliant military commander, but also a wise statesman seeing the necessity of peace.
No half measures in terms of winter. Just landed in Kiruna. Minus 25. Clear sky. Beautiful!  against demonstrators in Kiev very worrying. All must refrain from all violence. Authorities have a particular responsibility.
UN Security Council urges immediate cessation of all hostilities in South Sudan. Situation is worsening.  must be ready to help with immediate security in Central African Republic. It is time for the Battle Group concept to be used.
Finally! A white morning! Winter has arrived in Stockholm!  up from Vilnius after most useful discussions here. Fate of Ukraine in focus today. Economic and social situation deteriorating.
And Lithuanian media is also highlighting our new cyber embassy.  first in Swedish cyber diplomacy! Take a virtual tour of our beautiful embassy here in Vilnius.  meeting" in Trakai outside Vilnius distinctly lacking in terms of snow. But lively debates.  to Lithuania for getting its first satellites into space orbit.   lot of attention was given in Latvia to the Cicero award ceremony yesterday. I'm honoured.   to note that new figures show that Sweden is the leading international investor also in Lithuania.   up from Riga after speech, award ceremony and different discussions here. Now for Vilnius, Trakai and the #snowmeeting there.
Signing the honorary guest book of Latvia Parliament with Speaker Aboltuna and Ambassador Landerholm.  year from now Latvia will be the Presidency of the EU. And the new Eastern Partnership Summit will be its most important event.
Most useful luncheon with Latvia FM @edgarsrinkevics. Process of formation of a new government is underway. Consultations between parties.
Here my remarks when given the Cicero award in the Parliament of Latvia today.   I’m taking off from Tegel airport for Riga I see that Germany FM Steinmeier is taking off for his talks today in Athens.
It was useful yesterday evening here in Berlin to see also Moldova PM Iurie Leanca and discuss how we can help his nation on its path.
Wheels up from Tegel airport in Berlin. It should not take too long before we are in Riga in Latvia for talks and the ceremony there.
Yes, of course it makes sense to invite also Iran to the Syria peace talks.   nice to be at rock bottom of the list of failed states in the world. But truly worried over those on the top.  and Germany are close partners on many of the key European issues.  constructive talks here in Berlin. From Eastern Partnership over Syria and Iran to new challenges of our world of hyperconnectivity.
Pleased to check in to my favourite hotel in Berlin. I stayed here first time just a week after fall of the wall in 1989. Then East Berlin.
Great relief that the two Swedish journalists are out of Syria. But unfortunately there are still others held against their will.
Very soon wheels up for Berlin and afternoon and evening of talks there. Seems to be day of first working session of new German government.
Just received the formal invitation to the opening session of the Syria peace talks in Montreaux January 22. I will be there.
Today I will see the new Ambassadors to Sweden from Korea, Hungary, Belgium and Turkey. Good opportunity to review the bilateral relations.
Tomorrow afternoon I will be in Berlin for talks with Germany FM Frank-Walter Steinmeier. We are both committed to European integration.
I happen to be from an old Danish family. We were occupied by and incorporated in Sweden. But it has worked reasonably well.
Sweden and Denmark have fought more than 30 wars against each other. Way above the European average. But was a long, long, long time ago.
Very constructive working meeting with Denmark FM Holger Nielsen. Much in common between our countries.  PM Letta makes important case for policies to support strengthening industry in the economy of Europe.  It was truly a great pleasure - and we enjoyed the monastry church in Varnhem as well. Thanks!
Tomorrow I will be happy to welcome new Denmark FM Holger K Nielsen to Stockholm for a working visit.
Leaving Skara, but not before visit also to well-known old monastery church in Varnhem.  debate on where the known history of Sweden started, with this region one of the clear candidates.   on our way towards Skara. A day of mid-winter excursion in the culture and history of Sweden.
One of our C130's also part of UN efforts to get rid of Syria chemical weapons.  will offer help with C17 transport to get UN reinforcement quickly to South Sudan.  salute Norwegian and Danish navies prepared to escort Syria chemical weapons to destruction.  South Sudan peace talks are underway in Addis. Cessation of hostilities and release of political prisoners key steps to progress.
Are we facing the emergence of an AQ-linked entity from Aleppo in Syria to Fallujah in Iraq? Would be a most serious situation.
@FHeisbourg @Chellaney Could well be. The source and purpose of the information as interesting as its possible veracity.
Rise of displaced in South Sudan huge issue. But also 935.000 displaced in nearby Central African Reoublic.  @Chellaney Well, the truly interesting thing is that the story seems to be put out by the authorities in Beijing.
This story with information about brutal executions in North Korea is extraordinary in numerous respects.  other European capital of culture 2014 is Riga. I will be there already next week.   is one of the two European capitals of culture 2014. I’ll certainly try to visit.   at Ministry. Preparing for European year of 2014. A century after catastrophe of 1914. A quarter century after new hope of 1989.
Now close to 200.000 displaced in South Sudan fighting. Talks in Addis must bring quick end to conflict.  the new year Switzerland takes over the chairmanship of OSCE. We will be happy to support their efforts.  Kerry starts the new year with effort to limit Israel new settlement decision and save the peace talks with Palestine. Very important.
Happy New Year with the magnificent concert from Vienna! #prosit2014
Latvia joins Eurozone today. Reform policies during last few years have given it the strongest growth in Europe.  now we welcome Greece @gr2014eu taking over the Presidency of the EU. Looking forward to coming to Athens!
Happy New Year!  reports of grave atrocities and serious human rights violations in South Sudan are unfortunately confirmed.  taking off from a sunny and pleasant Rome. Heading home to celebrate the advent of the New Year!
At midnight Latvia switches over to the Euro. For economic stability. For anchoring in EU. Congratulations!  we say thank you to @EU2013LT for a good and inspiring EU Presidency last six months. Vilnius meetings will be remembered.
Peace processes go on for a long time and need constant care. Challenges in Belfast a new reminder of this.  @ioerror Not true. Of course.
Former Spain FM @anapalacio joins those calling for a new strategic debate on the global role of the EU.  a most productive working lunch with Italy FM Emma Bonino. We are close partners in trying to forge EU into an effective global actor.
Another despicable terrorist attack kills innocent people in Volgograd. Our sympathy is with the people of Russia as they face this threat.
Huge manifestation on Maidan in Kiev this Sunday as well. Hope of better Ukraine lives!  terrorist attack in Volgograd in Russia today. Many killed. Our thoughts with families and relatives.  and more people displaced as fighting continues in South Sudan. Thousands killed. Peace efforts are critical.  voters, after thinking through things, are more sensible than some political voices imply.  challenging with near-implosions of states in both South Sudan and Central African Republic. Huge also humanitarian challenges.
Good summary on why EU defence cooperation is important -and as a matter of fact is moving ahead.  also imperative that Turkey proceeds with the democratisation reforms part of the Kurdish peace process. Few things more important.
In its political crisis, Turkey would be wise to return to EU-inspired structural and democratic reforms.   to read @YeniDiplomasi on Digital Diplomacy 2013 - and honoured to be there.   here in English my OpEd on Ukraine in @ukrpravdanews.  views on the situation in Ukraine - in Russian.  regional meeting in Nairobi today on South Sudan crisis. More than 62.000 people sought UN protection. Around 120.000 displaced.
Mohammed Chatah was a most respected Lebanese with a distinguished record of service to his culturally so rich country. A huge loss.
Relieved that no one of our staff hurt in Beirut bomb, but deeply worried about other consequences. Stability of Lebanon needs our support.
Huge bomb in Beirut very close to our diplomatic premises. Extensive damage but no one of our staff hurt. Many deaths around.
Intense and brutal bombing of Aleppo hardly compatible with steps that must be taken to prepare for Syria peace conference. Must be stopped.
I have now passed a quarter of a million followers here. I just hope that I can live up to their expectations.
Report from @OCHASouthSudan talks about close to 100.000 displaced persons in last few days.  this Christmas Day I’m particularly horrified by the deadly attacks against Christian communities in Iraq. Authorities must protect.
Good that EUSR Rondos and @eueeas are now also joining efforts to prevent full scale civil war in South Sudan. Situation truly critical.
The regime in Egypt gets increasingly authoritarian. Repression will never be the way to true reconciliation and the democracy Egypt needs.
I’m deeply concerned about the recent and savage attack on a journalist in Ukraine.   visited the charming small church of St Birgitta in Rome.  thoughts this Christmas Day are with the Swedish citizens held illegally by groups or states around the world.
A special Merry Christmas to all supporters of democracy and European reforms in Ukraine!  wish all my followers here a truly Merry Christmas!  Cathy Ashton expresses extreme concern over developing South Sudan situation. Supports ongoing mediation efforts.  reports of mass ethnic killings in South Sudan. UN sending a further 5.500 troops to help.  release of prisoners, stop of fighting and truly unconditional talks only way to avert full-scale civil war in South Sudan.
Talked with Norway FM @borgebrende on dramatic crisis in South Sudan. Norway traditionally plays important role. We support their efforts.
Visited Vatican "FM" Mamberti for talks. And noted that ancient maps there note my home province Halland.  have launched The Challenge in order to support private sector ideas and development in Bosnia.  that V4 FM’s speak out strongly in favour of EU single market and free movement of people across borders.  worrying with over 60.000 displaced and fighting or unrest in five of the ten states of South Sudan.  Compromise urgently needed.
Internal conflict now threatens entire state of South Sudan and everything it could achieve. Civil war must be avoided.
The sun sets at 14:48 in Stockholm today. It’s the darkest day of the year. From now on we move towards brighter days.
IMF on Ukraine: current policy has generated large external and fiscal imbalances and deepened recession.  on the details of the deals between Moscow and Kiev. People of Ukraine are the losers.  you happen to be in Westfield in New Jersey in the US this is a bit of distinctly good news. Glögg is available!  Brahimi has decided to invite also Sweden to Syria Peace Conference Jan 22nd. We will do our utmost to contribute to its success.
Every Christmas brings its own tie - this is the 2013 version.  appropriate, in view of close links, that @VidarHelgesen from Norway was last visitor before Xmas.  spoke to new Germany FM Frank-Walter Steinmeier to congratulate more officially. We saw each other only days before his appointment.
Conclusions from EU Summit today gives green light for discussion on new EU global strategy. Aims for 2015.  Summit Conclusions: “The EU remains ready to sign the Association Agreement, including DCFTA, with Ukraine, as soon as Ukraine is ready.”
Release of Mikhail Khodorkovsky is high time. I was in Moscow the day in 2003 he was arrested, and vividly remember the reactions.
And later today I will also welcome Norway EU Minister @VidarHelgesen to Stockholm for talks on bilateral and European issues.
Welcoming Latvia FM @edgarsrinkevics to Stockholm for informal lunch on a range of different issues. Crisp and sunny day.
I see that the Greatest of Leaders and the Light of Mankind is embarking on a glorious sea voyage.  Council will reinforce key message that EU is ready to give Ukraine free trade, association and modernisation partnership.
@DavideDenti Could easily descend into Nuer versus Dinka. Seen before. Must make our utmost to prevent. Democratic state is at stake.
@mikolajnorek @BobBruner Agree. Great read.
I'm profoundly worried about the risk of situation in South Sudan descending into fatal ethnic conflict.   Slovakia FM @MiroslavLajcak for informal dinner. Endless number of issues to discuss. But hope for some pre-Christmas atmosphere.
Noted that Russia President Putin in his press conference repeated threat of trade measures against Ukraine if it signs agreement with EU.
Today, European Council will discuss our efforts to strengthen security and defence cooperation in EU.  will put one of its maritime surveillance aircraft at the disposal of EU Frontex. Saving life.  should be noted that we are today appointing an Ambassador to Funufuti. That’s the capital of Tuvalu. Member of the UN.
Heading for last cabinet meeting before Christmas. But PM Reinfeldt is immediately off to European Council in Brussels.
RailBaltic belong to the important and strategic infrastructure projects in our dynamic and growing part of Europe.  to note that Finland secures its key position on Arctic technologies for the future.  more on Brazil and its choice of the Gripen NG fighter. In Portuguese.  a tribute to Swedish technology and competitiveness that Brazil chooses Gripen as its future fighter.  that Russia emergency loan to Ukraine is only for two years. Very short. Crunch after 2015 Ukraine presidential election.
Full house in Parliament. Final vote before Christmas. Budget for Swedish state 2014.  I have discussions in Parliament on the situation in Palestine as well as UN policy.
During period of international help coverage of basic health care in Afghanistan has increased from 9 to 60% of the population.
Had great evening with Moderate Party MP’s at our traditional pre-Christmas dinner. Good spirit and good crowd.
Russian emergency loans to Ukraine risks further delaying urgent economic reforms and necessary EU modernisation. Decline might continue.
Solid reasons to be worried about rising tensions in Juba in South Sudan. A very fragile society and state.  light for start of EU accession talks for Serbia. And good negotiating framework. Important for entire region.
Wheels up from Brussels after last meetings here this year. Moved EU enlargement forward. Now couple of days in Stockholm. Great.
Cathy Ashton reports on great progress in the talks between Serbia and Kosovo. This is very important for EU process for both countries.
But I’m increasingly concerned with the lack of progress in Bosnia. It risks coming behind everyone else. Leaders have responsibility.
Today I hope that we will move the EU enlargement process for Western Balkan countries forward. Securing peace and building prosperity.
And here my media remarks before the start of today’s discussion on EU enlargement issues. Green light for Serbia.  if we get a clear message from Kiev, we are ready to sign the agreement any time.   media interest for our EU discussion on Ukraine and Russia. Here my interview with CNN on the subject.  believe free trade between Ukraine and Russia is good. But Ukraine should have the right to have free trade with the EU as well.
Ukraine should have the right take its own democratic decision without coercion or threats. That was clear message from EU FM’s today.
In our discussions @KGeorgievaEU gives an alarming picture of the situation in Central African Republic. We must  obvious that Russia has launched a massive disinformation campaign against EU and the agreement with Ukraine.
And here my remarks to media primarily on Ukraine and Serbia prior to our EU meeting.  here we have @malmstromEU signing the landmark agreement with Turkey FM Davutoglu.  Commissioner Cecilia Malmström signed landmark agreement with Turkey on visa and readmission.    morning. Wheels up for Brussels. Will be two days there. Stating with Foreign Affairs Council today. Ukraine. Syria. Balkans.
@BBCDanielS Yes. Hope it was OK to use it.  I retweeted it from you earlier as well.
Congratulations to Ireland Taoiseach Enda Kenny for successful end of three-year bailout programme.   Sunday with truly massive manifestation at Maidan for reforms, democracy and EU. Peaceful. Strong.  door is wide open for Ukraine to sign association and free trade agreement with EU. It’s ready. Any time.
I welcome Frank-Walter Steinmeier back as Germany FM. We saw each other a week ago in Berlin. I’m looking forward to continued cooperation.
Soon taking off from Nice. Heading home to Stockholm. Then Brussels tomorrow for EU Foreign Ministers meeting there.
We also had a historic meeting with the PM and FM of Monaco while here for the conference.  @RigelMD @Scriptonite I think you should acknowledge that you lied. And just stop it.
Impressive. Ukraine national anthem on the Maidan. With the lights of hope for a better future.  with with France FM @laurentfabius on Ukraine, Libya, Syria and more. We will see each other in Brussels on Monday again.
Challenges of a world of hyper-connectivity intensely discussed at WPC here in Monaco.  is of course very important that EU and US stick fully to their part of the interim nuclear agreement with Iran.  Just to point out that the quote is a fabrication. Simply not true.
Looks as if throughly prepared anti-Maidan and anti-EU manifestation in Kiev flopped. Guess they will throw more resources at it tomorrow.
Congratulations to new Austria FM @sebastiankurz!
Photo allegedly by US Navy shows Swedish Air Force C130 helping in areas devastated in the Philippines.  by German friend and diplomat on the road to signing the Dayton peace agreement for Bosnia.  in panel here on World Policy Conference in Monaco on digital world challenges ahead.   it’s official that key North Korea leader has been “despicable human scum Jang, who was worse than a dog.”  And the rest?
EU is now flying in emergency humanitarian aid to Central African Republic. Increasingly desperate situation.   by Ukraine PM on economy and EU agreement get increasingly strange. It would pave way for  to take off with Nice, Monaco and World Policy Conference as final destination.   time also to see my old friend Vladimir Ryzjkov from Moscow, who is here talking about the situation in his country.
Also today informative meting between the King, the Crown Princess and the government. Good overview of ongoing reform efforts.
Lucia Day today. Light in our darkness. Needed. But starting my day with early meeting with Parliament EU Commission.
Stalinist condemnation, trial and execution of Jang Song Thaek. A truly brutal and totalitarian regime.  was happy to be the first of colleagues to call and congratulate new Denmark FM Holger K. Nielsen. We will meet in Brussels on Monday.
I was honoured to receive Director-General Ahmet Üzümcü from Nobel Prize winning OPCW here today.  can follow directly our seminar in Parliament with OPCW on prohibition of  chemical weapons.   starting this Thursday in Stockholm with our regular Cabinet meeting. Update on domestic, European and foreign policy issues.
Today we will honour Nobel Prize winner OPCW in Stockholm as well.   for another night of confrontation in Kiev. Hardly compatible with regime talk of round table with opposition. Double messages.
Sorry to hear that Denmark FM Villy Sövndal is leaving. Thanked him for good and fruitful work together.   a meeting with Israel Minister of Communications Gilad Erdan who was here for the Nobel Prize ceremonies.
This government of Ukraine has clearly discredited itself in terms of economic help from EU.  But we should be ready to support EU reforms.
North Korea selling gold - could be a much bigger story than we are yet aware of.  versus Europe in streets of Kiev tonight. Repression versus reform. Power versus people.  follow events in and around Maidan at this moment with great concern. Repression is not way forward for Ukraine - reform should be.
And the Nobel Gala Party goes on and on in the Golden Hall in Stockholm.  very soon it all starts. We are getting together. And ready.  can also follow the different events of the Nobel Week through Storify here.  gearing up for the Nobel Prize Award Ceremony starting soon. Always a great event!  with author and great friend of Africa Per Wästberg in TV studio following Mandela ceremony.  just signed the book of condolences for Nelson Mandela at the Embassy of South Africa.  SVT commenting on the live transmissions from the Mandela ceremony in Soweto.  Now to the Embassy of South Africa.
Today, highly appropriate, is also Human Rights Day.  commemoration day in South Africa. Maidan day in Kiev. Nobel day in Stockholm and Oslo.
“Watch Kiev if you believe in  news with armed police storming Hq of opposition @Batkivshchyna party in Kiev. Utterly unacceptable in European  society.
Tomorrow EU:s Cathy Ashton is coming to Kiev for wide-ranging talks.  We must help to strengthen reforms, democracy and economy in Ukraine.
North Korea leader Jang Song Thaek dramatically purged for “dreaming different dreams” and possibly executed.  Princess Victoria and PM Reinfeldt have now left for South Africa to honour memory of Nelson Mandela.
Tension rising in Kiev. Right of peaceful manifestations must be respected. All violence must be avoided. Dialogue must be started.
@DrJohanFranzen @wikileaks @PhilGreaves01 And I did not say that either. Just for the record.
Just finished debates in Parliament on UNSCR 1325 implementation as well as nuclear disarmament. Both most important issues.
Had the honour of meeting Dr Denis Mukwege and discuss his important work against sexual violence in DRC.  Of course not!
@EleniGiokos @AfricaInsights @wikileaks Not true!
@abidnazir89 Don’t believe in lies!
I hear that Russian state TV is sinking to new depths in efforts to attack EU supporters in and of Ukraine. Distasteful. And ominous.
Lenin hated democracy and loved brutal repression of political opponents. Set up communist dictatorship in Russia. Statue?
Important that France was ready to intervene to support African efforts to stop carnage and killings in Central African Republic.
Tonight even more obvious that Ukraine needs a round table agreement to get out of its crisis. Otherwise risk of violence and repression.
Incredible and impressive pictures from the top of the Christmas tree on the Maidan in Kiev today.  Certainly, but since I write in English I use the usual English name. Also Moscow, Vienna and Warzaw.
Massive new manifestation on Maidan in Kiev. Peaceful. Determined. Here live on YouTube.  dramatic opposition win in Rajasthan elections. Largest Indian state by area and 70 million people.  international IAEA inspectors are at Iran's Arak heavy water reactor site. Agreement seems to be working.  results in the Delhi local elections part of the picture in other regional votes in India now.  historian Timothy Snyder on whether there is a way out for Ukraine.  to take off from semi-sunny Berlin after interesting talks here. Ukraine, Turkey and European security have been in focus.
Ominous information that special forces have taken control of TV tower in Kiev. Is a dark scenario being prepared?
Excellent news from Bali with multilateral WTO deal to facilitate global trade. Good for all, but particular for developing nations.
Dinner with friends and good discussions at Borchardt just by Gendarmenmarkt in the hearth of old Berlin.   President suddenly goes to Sochi to discuss new strategic relationship with Russia. In desperate need of cash  certainly worth re-reading the Nobel lecture that Nelson Mandela gave in 1993.   slightly wintry Berlin. Talks in Bundestag on new government prospects. Europe needs Germany - and vice versa. Now discussions on Turkey.
Today we are congratulating Finland on its Independence Day.
Mismanaged economy key in Ukraine crisis. Debt third most expensive in world after Argentina and Venezuela.   the streets of Kiev has become a new symbol of the dream of a Europe bringing peace, freedom and prosperity to all its nations.
I fear that forces wanting Ukraine to abandon European road will not shy away from using violence. Wisdom and leadership required by all.
Light snow falling on Kiev. Soon time to depart to Berlin. But truly critical days ahead for Ukraine. Dangers should not be underestimated.
Peacefully they just want to live in an honest, open and prospering European society. Impressive.  and old peacefully together for a better Ukraine in a better Europe.  Mandela was a giant of our age. For freedom. For rights of everyone. For reconciliation. For compassion. A world in deep grief.
In the midst of the enthusiasm and determination of the Maidan in the hearth of Kiev and Europe. Thousands.
Back to OSCE meeting to deliver statement. I will stress our commitment to freedom, democracy and human rights. And rights of every nation.
We started Kiev day with long and intense meeting with PM Azarov. Warned against any further use of violence  @sikorskiradek I have stressed the responsibility of each and everyone to avoid any violence and be prepared to work together.
I know millions have been waiting... here it is... a new so called Family Photo.  slight delay the OSCE ministerial meeting in Kiev is now starting. But not the main event in town.  night in Kiev. Intense coordination immediately after arriving here. Tomorrow will be a day with both OSCE meeting and Ukraine talks.
And now it's wheels up for Kiev. For OSCE Ministerial. And, needless to say, other meetings as well.  that three ex-Presidents of Ukraine are in solidarity with pro-EU manifestations.    the corridors of NATO earlier today with the FM's of Croatia, Albania and Macedonia. Always Balkans...  Stockholm to deliver a speech on Sweden's security policy in this age of accelerating globalisation and new challenges. In Swedish.
A decade ago only 900.000 boys in schools in Afghanistan. Now nearly 8 millions girls and boys. We have made a difference.
And now it's wheels up from Brussels and Nato after constructive Afghanistan talks here. And other issues. Stockholm next.
@MarcPierini1 @DmitriTrenin The offer is on the table. Neither more no less. Long-term modernisation. Like Turkey joining EU customs union.
Wheels up from Helsinki together with Finland FM Tuomioja. For  Brussels, NATO and ministerial meeting on ISAF operations in Afghanistan.
Tomorrow I obviously start my day here in Helsinki. But I will be at meetings in Brussels and then in Stockholm before arriving in Kiev.
In Helsinki today was also Sweden DefMin Karin Enström meeting her Nordic colleaugues. Tomorrow they will see also the Baltic DefMin's.
No visit to Helsinki is´complete without a visit to Akademiska Bokhandeln. One of the best bookshops of our Nordic world.
Huge interest in all discussions here in Helsinki in long-term implications for Europe of what is now happening in and over Ukraine.
Earlier today lunch with Finland President Sauli Niinistö, Wolfgang Ischinger and James Goodby.  FM Tuomioja opened the Max Jakobson international seminar at Helsinki University earlier today.  taking off for Helsinki and what will surely be an interesting day there. Starting with seeing President Sauli Niinistö.
Morning in Stockholm. Checking news. Boy off to school. Contacts in different directions. Tight days ahead. Off to airport.
Important call between Brussels and Kiev. And clear messages from Brussels as well.  a good and long talk with Russia Speaker Valentina Matviyenko. Bilateral links. Baltic environment. Economy. Ukraine. Arctic. Syria.
Russia TV gets most things wrong. Nations at Poltava. Me and Westerwelle. CIA and agents. Not a stellar moment...  welcoming here Valentina Matviyenko, who is now Chairman of Federation Council of Russia. Meet before when she was in St Petersburg.
Sitting down for a strategic discussion on the implications for Sweden of different space developments. European space policy important.
We called Ambassador of Ukraine to Ministry to express our deep concern over use of violence against peaceful demonstrators. Urged dialogue.
Will see new Ambassadors to Sweden from Iraq, Lebanon, Cyprus and Latvia later today.
We should never forget that Ukraine is a large and diverse country. But flag waves everywhere.  focus is on Kiev, but manifestations also elsewhere. Impressive picture from Lviv. Said to be 40.000.  President Yanukovich will go to Moscow and agree on "roadmap" according to PM Azarov. Road to where?
Here a joint statement on developments in Ukraine by Poland FM @sikorskiradek and myself.   be obvious to each and everyone today how strong support is for reform and EU integration in Ukraine.  law on demonstrations violate the rights and the aspirations of the Egyptian people." Strong EU words.  by the peaceful determination we now see demonstrated so massively in the streets of Kiev.
EU strongly condemns excessive use of force against peaceful demonstrators in Kiev.    sign that Ukraine PM Azarov condemns police violence. But orders for crackdown are most likely to have come from his President.
I fear that Yanukovich has decided on a policy of repression. But still hope that other voices will speak up. Extreme danger for Ukraine.
Authorities in Kiev must fully respect the freedom of expression and the right to peaceful manifestations. These are core European values.
Repression against pro-EU manifestations in Kiev deeply worrying. We follow events.  Vilnius we repeated our demands to release political prisoners in Belarus.   Lithuania President @GrybauskaiteLT for very well organised and important days here!
And here is the Joint Declaration of the Eastern Partnership Summit that just ended.  up from Vilnius. Always pleasant place to visit. Back to the desk in Stockholm. Tomorrow is another day.
President Yanukovich must show what we wants. Rumours he has promised to leave European Energy Community. Would kill Association Agreement.
Press briefings after conclusion of meeting. Important steps with Georgia and Moldova. Open door to Ukraine.  did not mention possibility of suspending the signature of the EU agreement until our final meetings last  now start of the formal Eastern Partnership Summit. Everyone is here. Big interest.  step as Moldova PM Leanca initial the Association and DCFTA Agreement with EU a few minutes ago.  wasn't that long ago that Poland and Ukraine were roughly on the same level. Today they are in different  in @kyivpost this morning tries to catch the path of Ukraine President Yanukovich.  you can hear BBC Newshour on the Eastern Partnership and the Ukraine issue. Including interview with me.  FM Kozhara in our discussions confirms that Ukraine has succumbed to severe Russian economic pressure in postponing EU agreement.
If you want to see what Eastern Partnership really achieves, look at Civil Society and Business Forums. They shape the future.
Now off to dinners and more official start of Eastern Partnership Summit. Can't say I expect much from President Yanukovich. But we'll see.
Obvious at Business Summit here that EU agreement with Ukraine would be good for Russia. A growing Ukraine brings benefits to Russia as well
Very good new @ECFR paper on why Europe needs a new and effective global strategy.  activism and enthusiasm of civil society is a true and for future most important achievement of our Eastern Partnership. Brings hope.
Had time to briefly pass by also our Swedish Embassy here in Vilnius. A small gem as far as Embassies are concerned.
Very well attended panel discussion together with @sikorskiradek. On reality check for Eastern Partnership.  massive media interest for EU Eastern Partnership. I can hardly move around...  less than 1.100 journalists are said to be here in Vilnius for the Eastern Partnership discussions. Summit certainly generated interest.
Lithuania President Grybauskaite opened civil society conference with NGO's from all over the EaP countries.  started my day in Vilnius by supporting work of European Institute for Gender Equality here.  Åslund hits hard at what he considers anti-growth and pro-corruption policy in Russia. Is he right?   short term Ukraine is in financially dire situation. Mismanaged. Refused IMF cooperation. Desperately needs cash. Ready to sell itself?
Studies show EU agreement would add 12% to Ukraine’s GDP and increase exports by 46 percent in the long term. Very substantial.
The more I look to what he says, the more I questions to where Ukraine President Yanukovich really has decided to take his country.
Impressed by the way @LinkeviciusL and @EU2013LT have been running the EU Presidency so far these 6 months. Good for the country.
Snow on the ground in Vilnius as we arrived. But as charming as ever. Geographically actually very close to the very centre of Europe.
Hans Blix - who truly knows the issues - comments on the nuclear deal with Iran. Worth reading.   up for Vilnius to attend both civil society and business parts of run-up to Eastern Partnership Summit.  pleasure to see acting Nigeria FM Viola Oawuliri visiting Sweden today and tomorrow. Impressive country.  I also had the opportunity of sitting down with Iran Deputy FM Ravanchi discussing both bilateral and wider issues.
Valdis Dombrovskis has been among the most successful of PM's in Europe. Took Latvia through difficult times. Charted the future.
Honourable but highly regrettable that Latvian Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis resigns over tragic accident.  ECDC extremely concerned with cases of polio in Syria and the consequences. A health security issue.  off to visit ECDC. Helping to protect us Europeans against diseases and related dangers.   photo from @KyivPost of standoff between police and EU-supporters in Kiev.  only has episode been a healthy reality check, the EU also went through an test of unity and came out intact."  worrying reports of media censorship and cyber attacks in Ukraine.  take all cases of missing Swedes extremely seriously, but we are not always in a position to say exactly what we know or what we do.
Now off to Parliament to answer questions about deplorable human rights situation in Iran, and in particular wide use of death sentence.
Sat down with ministerial colleagues Ewa Björling and Hillevi Engström to discuss ministry priorities in 2014 budget. We are in good shape.
Looking forward to visiting @ECDCEU later today. Important EU centre in Stockholm.
Morning in Europe. Sunny and clear in Stockholm. Cloudy and uncertain in Kiev. Overcast in Brussels. Snow over Sarajevo.
EU leaders "strongly disapprove of the Russian position and actions" when it comes to pressure against Ukraine.  news that UN is now calling Geneva Syria Peace Conference for January 22. Create transitional governing body.  soon be in SVT Agenda with @matsknutson discussing EU- Ukraine relations as well as Iran nuclear deal.
Iran has really embraced digital public diplomacy as it seeks to explain its nuclear activities to the world.  We have got eight of them.
Our Air Force busy with C130's both in relief work in Philippines and on Cyprus with UN Syria CW efforts.   reports that more than 100.000 went to the streets in pro-EU manifestation in Kiev today. That's huge.  I have been in touch with Catherine Ashton and congratulated her on the deal. Her contribution on behalf of EU was key.
No doubting the massive size of the pro-EU manifestation in Kiev today. Sends a signal.  the key joint statement by EU's Cathy Ashton and Iran FM @JZarif on the agreement.   substantial that Iran will suspend all enrichment above 5 percent and dilute or convert all its 20 percent enriched uranium.
Impressive pictures coming in from pro-EU demonstration in Kiev just now. Massive attendance.  warmly welcome the agreement with Iran today. The world has become safer. Now dialogue for a broader deal with Iran must be intensified.
Autumn weather, but a calm day at Munich airport. Pleasant. And Germany is a country that has serious newspapers to read through.
Today we should remember Holomodor, when many millions of Ukrainians died in a Stalinist famine.  deal is a good deal. It's only an interim deal. But it breaks the vicious cycle towards war and initiates a new political process.
Would like to see key FM's heading to Iran talks in Geneva as an encouraging sign. Would be foolish go there only to break up.
Washington day. Discussions and talks. Quick visit to bookstore. Dinner with friends at Clyde's. Soon off to Dulles airport and then home.
Ukraine has a great potential for the future. But now it has regrettably postponed it.  and politically things are likely to get worse. But this will be blamed on Russia and Mr Yanukovych."  in Washington. Media dominated by JFK assassination and Obamacare problems. Syria, Iran and trans-Atlantic links on my agenda.
Terrible tragedy in Riga with the loss of lives of at least 32 people as roof of a supermarket collapses. We share the feelings of grief.
Further information on how “Ukraine could not withstand the economic pressure and blackmail."  again tops the annual Web Index country rankings for 2013 ahead of Norway.  a century ago President John F. Kennedy was killed in Dallas. Today, US looks back and remembers.  a podcast of our entire discussion on Eastern Partnership at Brookings this afternoon.  interest for the discussion on Eastern Partnership at @BrookingsInst.  media has already called it "Black Thursday". Yes, but we must hold out hope for future days!  here the signing ceremony with Volvo CEO Olof Persson and USAID Administrator Rajiv Shah.  agreement between Volvo and USAID on vocational training schools in ten African countries. 
Cox and Alexander Kwasniewski on "the dramatically increased pressure from Russia in recent weeks."    regrets Ukraine sending negative signal to the world on willingness to reform and develop its economy.  talks with National Security Adviser Susan Rice in White House. Good bilateral links, but lots of other problems on the plate.
Ukraine economy in decline. Will hardly help to turn away from EU reforms and towards Russia. Kills FDI prospects.  13 hours in the air I have arrived in Washington. First quick breakfast at Starbucks. Then for talks in the White House.
Ukraine government suddenly bows deeply to the Kremlin. Politics of brutal pressure evidently works.  notes clear correlation between insufficient economic and political reform and a lack of growth.
new studies point at long-term weakness for Russia's economy in the absence of deep reforms.   airport. Leaving this part of the world for now after good discussions at @wefgac. Soon taking off for the long flight to Washington.
Depressing observation on how things are evolving in President Yanukovich's circles in Kiev. Could well be true.  visit by Erdoğan and Barzani to Dyarbakir causing controversy, which is sure sign of its importance.   of trade between Russia and Ukraine cut by app 25% last few months. Significant negative economic effects. That was the intention.
If I did not have to be diplomatic, I would have called this move by Turkey AKP profoundly stupid.   and pleasant morning in Abu Dhabi. Continued discussions at @wefgac. Rigs on the horizon. Persia on the other side of the Gulf.
Let's make a deal. Tom Friedman on discussions we both attended last few days.   of Russia radically increasing pressure on Ukraine. Brutal politics of threats of and coercion. Seeks submission.
As negotiators get together in Geneva, they have a duty to conclude the interim deal on Iran nuclear issue that is practically on the table.
Despicable terror attack in Beirut today. Risk of strain building up in society under stress by conflict in Syria. One million refugees.
I talked about an emerging world of growing multi-regionalism at @wefgac plenary. Up to Europe how we will cope in this world.
Sorry to hear about passing away of Glafkos Clerides. Former President of Cyprus and a truly historic figure in every respect.
Transatlantic trade negotiations in focus in @wefgac discussions here this morning. Consequences of success great. Of failure even larger.
Ukraine must understand that it also faces massive financial challenges. Agreement with IMF necessary. Turning back to EU would hardly help.
Long but productive day in Brussels. Lots on the plate. Now taking off again for Abu Dhabi. Joining @wefgac discussions a day late.
EU calls for UN Security Council to act on resolution for humanitarian access in Syria. Catastrophic situation. Especially children at risk.
Now joint meeting between EU Foreign and Defence Ministers. How can we further strengthen our common capabilities? An uncertain world.
I was encouraged by the good conduct of the renewed local elections in Northern Mitrovica in Kosovo.
Here video of my remarks to media as we entered the building for EU meetings a short time ago.   we congratulate Latvia on its Independence Day.
Cloudy Brussels. Off to EU building for meetings. Working for stronger conclusions on humanitarian access in Syria. Horrible situation.
Soon wheels up from Abu Dhabi. Heading through the night to Brussels and days of EU meetings there tomorrow.
Will press for more long-term discussion on European Global Strategy in EU discussions tomorrow. We must bring our perspectives together.
Gulf states nervous over nuclear talks with Iran. But acknowledge that conflict should be avoided. Historic tensions with Persia.
Evening in Abu Dhabi with old and new friends. Summing up days of discussion in the desert. Nervous region in Arab world in transition.
Meeting of EU FM's in Brussels tomorrow. Issues on EU common security and defence policy in focus. Also Southern and Eastern neighbourhoods.
Morning in the desert. Clear sky. Temperature rising. New day of discussions.  also @ValerieAmos discussing immediate relief efforts in Philippines and rapidly escalating humanitarian catastrophe in Syria.
Danger of different forces trying actively to undermine possibility of an interim nuclear deal with Iran.   worrying with new outbreaks of violence in Tripoli. Stability in Libya a key concern for Europe.  reports of Syria regime denying humanitarian access and using starvation as a weapon. UN Security Council must act.
Diplomacy required. Had a cordial and friendly talk with Portugal Deputy PM Paulo Portas.
Important that @williamjhague calls for war crimes inquiry in Sri Lanka. Should already have taken place.  soon wheels up for Abu Dhabi and days of discussions. Critical year ahead. Syria, Iran and Palestine/Israel.
Starting day with briefing Parliament EU Committee on preparations for EU meetings in Brussels Monday.
@alexstubb I'm not sure we would like to hear more about this...
It will indeed be historic when Turkey PM Erdogan and KRG President Barzani meet in Diyarbakir.  I had time to pass by Teleopti and look at their new headquarters. Successful company.   Stockholm. Cabinet meeting. Relief efforts Philippines. Help Swedish citizens.
Dramatic satellite pictures illustrate the scale of devastation after the typhoon in the Philippines.  @tkesho3 It's not Ukraine deciding - it's its President. His agenda far from clear.
Abundantly clear that everything concerning Ukraine's direction is in the hands of President Yanukovich.   more relief flights taking off from Sweden and heading for Philippines disaster area.    that also US military assets will now help relief efforts in Philippines. Everything needed.  Alexander the Great armies have tried to get over the Hindu Kush. Separates Central and South Asia.  view over the Hindu Kush as we passed over. Panshir Valley. Also Bagram air base.  @ShashiTharoor We will see each other soon. Heard that you had a very good reason to dash off to Bombay.
Soon taking off from New Delhi after most useful days in India and with Asia. ASEM meeting most useful. And India always incredible.
Today important first meeting of the EU-Myanmar Task Force. You can follow on Storify.  Nobel dinner with @ShashiTharoor and other old and new friends from rich, diverse and fascinating India. Should come here more often.
Nobel dinner soon at our Delhi Embassy will also celebrate centenary of Rabindranath Tagore's Nobel prize.  an hour discussing India with Rahul Gandhi and then bought some books. Fairly close to the definition of a good afternoon.
Finland and Sweden seems to be the global leaders in heavy metal bands. Also.  in ASEM discussions urgency of humanitarian access and political solution in Syria. Now 40% of population displaced or refugees.
In our informal ASEM discussion I welcomed support from India, China, Japan, Korea and Singapore for the Arctic Council as new observers.
Nearly 10 million people affected by super typhoon Haiyan. Massive relief operation underway.  Egypt the search goes on not only for a better future but also for the past. Hope for success in both cases.  there is now little doubt that there is a doable deal with Iran. And a most important one.   to confess I didn't notice the earthquakes here in Delhi during the night.
Sweden, Estonia and the Netherlands brought up the net freedom issue in ASEM talks. I repeated my seven Seoul principles on surveillance.
Believe it or not, but the world has been blessed with another "family photo". I stayed in background.  quick sandwich we had a meeting between Nordic-Baltic FM's and Japan FM Fumio Kishida.  had a productive bilateral meeting with India FM Khurshid. We have a rapidly expanding relationship.  congratulate Poland in its Independence Day today. Close partner in numerous areas. Now with @sikorskiradek here in India.
ASEM countries together are 52% of global GDP,  60% of global population and 70% of global trade.
India FM Salman Kurshid opens the ASEM FM's meeting in New Delhi this morning.  international efforts starting to help victims of Super Typhoon Haiyan. Sweden part of the efforts.  change is certainly a big issue here in Asia - and today starts COP19 in Warzaw.  brief stopover in Helsinki it's soon take off for New Delhi and important ASEM meeting starting tomorrow morning.
Sweden also sending equipment for emergency tele- and internet communications to Philippine catastrophe.
Need for a fast and concerted international relief effort for Tacloban in Philippines. Catastrophic conditions reported.
Some work to be done here before leaving for ASEM Foreign Ministers meeting in New Delhi tomorrow.   Sweden giving aid to the victims of the typhoon disaster in Philippines. Coordinating with UN OCHA.
UK FM @WilliamJHague after Geneva Iran talks says that "a deal is on the table and can be done". Good. Then it should be done.
"Advanced multi-year cyber attack on Finland’s diplomatic communications is likely to be part of wider  35 years of economic opening, China should now be ready for new phase of more comprehensive reforms.  as if the most difficult talks in Geneva are not with Iran but within the Western group. Not particularly good.
Certainly important to "seize the moment" in Geneva Iran nuclear talks. Divisions must not delay decision.  9 marks the 75th anniversary of the Nazi regime's "Kristallnacht" pogrom. Nerver forget!  this Saturday with TV4 @Nyhetsmorgon discussing Turkey and its EU prospects.
Good atmosphere at discussion with EU Ambassadors at Lithuanian Embassy earlier today.  symbolic that US SecState John Kerry and Iran FM Zarif are meeting at EU Mission in Geneva. Cathy Ashton leading.
Somewhat strange that Israel PM Netanyahu is able to condemn the possible deal with Iran as "bad" even before it has been done.
Off to Lithuania Embassy to discuss EU challenges with the EU Ambassadors in Stockholm.
@KasiaSobiepanek I write a blog in Swedish at  And I guess it's easy to translate these days.
Irrational that Israel is trying to block efforts to reach a reasonable deal with Iran on nuclear issue. Endless confrontation no policy.
Sweden clearly supports Turkey's EU membership ambition. Would give us a stronger Europe. And a better Turkey. In mutual interest.
No less than 196 businessmen in delegation of Turkey PM Erdogan on his visit to Sweden. Strong business relationship as well.
We certainly need a deep debate on EU's global strategy. Important. But it should result in a document.   military contribution to Afghanistan in years to come will be 10% of what it was in top years. But large increase in development aid.
I will today also welcome a delegation from the Gulf Cooperation Council headed by SG Al Zayani. Another lunch and talks.
Cabinet meeting starts the day. Then we welcome Turkey PM Erdogan for talks and lunch with PM Reinfeldt. EU, reforms and region on agenda.
I complete my day of consultations with dinner with the members of Foreign Affairs Committee of Parliament. Informal. Interesting. Useful.
Soon back to Royal Castle for meeting with Royal Advisory Commission on Foreign Affairs. Includes all key parliamentary leaders.
To Royal Castle for Cabinet meeting with the King to inform about ongoing work in different areas. I have a long list...
One can unfortunately not avoid being slightly pessimistic on prospects for Ukraine and EU at the moment.  missed flight I could still sit at Brussels airport and follow discussions at @CSIS #GSF2013 in Washington.
Unusually messy traffic in Brussels today. Strikes and rain. Missed my flight back to Stockholm. Trying something later. Inshallah.
Also saw European Council President Herman van Rompuy during my day in Brussels. On radius ahead.  gathering with also @markhleonard and @jantechau to discuss European Global Strategy.  day in Brussels. Under umbrella with @stefanfuleEU. On way to Turkey meeting.  great event on EU digital agenda @ict2013eu in Vilnius. Would have liked to be there.  to future is to move forward on Cyprus negotiations. Turkey should implement Ankara Protocol. Unification talks must restart promptly.
Now 14 chapters opened in Turkey EU negotiations - 21 more to go. Should open those on political and judiciary reforms. Mutual interest.
With @LinkeviciusL, @StefanFuleEU and @EgemenBagis for opening new chapter in Turkey accession negotiations with the EU. New momentum.
Rainy. Very early departure for day in Brussels. Enlargement, analysis and European Global Strategy among issues in focus.
Lively US/EU/Turkey discussion on wide range of issues as @gmfus comes to Stockholm again with Trilateral Dialogue. Enjoyed.
Four major changes in global prosperity index during last 5 years.   too bad, with Sweden no 4 in Legatum global prosperity index. Nordics in top ten.   has called for the release of all political prisoners in Egypt, including Mohamed Morsi.
It is also the regime in Egypt that stands trial as it brings Mohamed Morsi to court. We will watch.
I'm impressed with news of the massive pro-EU manifestation in Chisinau today. The youth of Moldova wants Europe.  disturbing with also direct violence against voting in Northern Kosovo. Rule by thugs must never be accepted.  calls affecting local elections in Northern Kosovo shows the fears that are still there. Situation requires time and patience.
Soon taking off from sunny Milan after pleasant weekend in the delights of Northern Italy. Back to business.
Another question: why are Nordic's leaders in gender enlightenment?  is today the local elections in Kosovo are. Most important.
Today, we face a world of more diverse risks, challenges and threats. Constant knowledge of these important for security of the nation.
During Cold War our detailed assessment of Soviet military capabilities and activities was key to management of our security policy.
During WW2 Sweden was able to listen to German military and diplomatic cables and break the codes. It was of supreme importance to us.
Very much hope for high turnout by all in the local elections in Kosovo today. Need legitimate and strong also Serb representatives.
Truly worrying reports about the outbreak of polio as an effect of the destruction of society and economy of Syria. We must stop it.
@erlandssonlars Agree entirely. Solidarnosc and its courageous leadership was of decisive importance.
Another key question: Why does Sweden have all these billionaires? do hope also all the Serbs in Kosovo will use the opportunity and go to the polls in the local elections tomorrow.  @PerFolke Yes, and EU states are part of rapidly growing web of global free trade agreements. To leave them sounds stupid.
Italy PM Letta is entirely right in his warnings. The risk of the UK sliding away from and leaving the EU is real.  a matter of fact I went to Canossa today. No real need, but a spectacular place to visit.   with dismantling Syria CW welcomed. But worried about delays in calling Geneva 2 peace conference. Human cost immense.
Mazowiecki's Miracle. Thanks to him Poland was first Soviet Bloc country to free itself of Communist tyranny  I have said the same all the time. We know the world we live in.
We see advanced intelligence operations against our countries by strong and determined actors. We must be vigilant.    Africa will grow by 5 percent in 2013—more than in 70 percent of the countries of the world.  pop music success - how come? An attempt at an answer. Interesting.  sorry to miss gala and award of Nordic Council prize for literature tonight. Normally a highlight of the Nordic year.
Nordic foreign, security and defence policy cooperation closer than ever. Now taking off from Oslo after successful days here and in Tromsø.
Here from press conference with four Nordic FM's and Denmark Nordic cooperation minister earlier today.  Greenland PM calls for Nordic drone squadron to help with surveillance of areas around the huge island.  its Norway FM @borgebrende calling for rapid progress towards political solution in Syria.  chamber of Norwegian parliament will fill up for Nordic Council foreign and security policy debate.  morning together with @borgebrende in most of the TV and radio studios of Oslo.
Late evening in Oslo after dinner with all the centre-right Nordic representatives here. Old memories mixed with fascinating new horizons.
@AhmetDavutoglu Yes, we must!
Congratulations to Turkey on its Republic Day and opening of important Marmaray rail tunnel linking Europe and Asia.  Solberg and Reinfeldt at public meeting discussing common challenges for Norway and Sweden.  taking off from Tromsö. Oslo and the Nordic Council meeting there is my next destination.  discussion on the future of the reindeer economy around the world. Important for indigenous peoples.  these "family photos" at international gatherings. The world not be the same without them...  Sweden FM I have been visiting Northern Norway more often than Oslo. Recognition of potential and increased importance of the region.
More than 12 million border crossings between Finland and Russia and very strong growth trend. Most between Helsinki and St Petersburg.
Could be more than 400.000 border crossings between Russia and Norway in the far north. Good trend.   Norway FM @borgebrende delivered his first policy speech on Northern issues here in Tromsö earlier today. Clear priorities.
Third of land area and 80% of maritime zone of Norway is North of the Polar Circle. Economic activities booming. Great opportunities.
Arrived in Arctic Tromsö. Nice snow. And already dark at 4 pm. Winter is coming.  in Oslo today of all the Nordic and Baltic PM’s. Very important with informal coordination and cooperation. The Top of Europe.
Soon wheels up for Oslo and from there onwards to Tromsö. A long way, but looking forward to Tromsö tonight. Great Arctic city.
Tomorrow starts in Oslo the 65th session of Nordic Council. PM's gathering already today.   DefMin Karin Enström is these days in Afghanistan discussing future cooperation.  congratulate Georgia on its well-run presidential election and Giorgi Margvelashvili on clearly being the winner.
Saddened by passing of first PM of free modern Poland Tadeusz #Mazowiecki. He played a crucial role in restoring freedom and independence.
Tomorrow I'm off for the Barents Euro-Arctic Council in Tromsö. Starting with dinner.   SvD i dag om resan till Moldavien, Ukraina och Georgien tidigare i veckan.   important presidential election today, Georgia needs more of policies of reform and less of policies of revenge.
Together with Poland we have repeated the call for Belarus to release all political prisoners.  a world of risks we need both security and intelligence services. Key that they work under the law. Sweden very clear on this.
Complicated election result in Czech Republic today. Previous government clearly lost, but opposition Social Democrats failed to win.
Sweden is target of constant intelligence operations by foreign powers. Security service reports. We protect. We know the world we live in.
Just as Sweden is an active partner of NATO, Norway is an important part of EU single market as well as of the Schengen system.
I will spend half of next week in Norway - first in lovely Tromsö in the North and then in enjoyable Oslo. Barents and Nordic Councils.
Noted with @borgebrende that more than 70.000 Swedes are enjoying working and living in Norway. And country is our biggest export market.
Was great to greet new Norway FM Borge Brende welcome on his first foreign visit. Also dinner for talks.  I look forward to welcoming new Norway FM @borgebrende for talks and dinner. Extremely close and important relationship.
Innovation in digital era: Barroso presentation to European Council. EU needs to accelerate.  has become a breeding ground also for video games. An economy of innovation.  with @MiroslavLajcak about our worries that Ukraine will not be ready to sign Association Agreement with EU as things stand now.
Today, on its own day, we celebrate the United Nations and all its efforts for peace and development.  up from Warzaw after most interesting visit to Frontex. Key EU agency and key European challenge. More and more in focus.
Good on Storify on @sikorskiradek and my tour of key Eastern Partnership countries.   hours in Warzaw. Seeing EU frontier agency Frontex at its Hq here. Discuss Mediterranean situation.   up from Tbilisi after successful tour with @sikorskiradek of key Eastern Partnership countries. Messages delivered. Support given.
Clear message to Georgia on respect for rule of law and avoiding politics of revenge. Ukraine a warning.  point in Tbilisi program was three TV channels jointly interviewing @sikorskiradek and myself.  finished press briefing after talks with Georgia PM Ivanishvili together with @sikorskiradek.  elections in Georgia coming weekend. But powers of presidency will be reduced.  in Tbilisi of a long day. With President Saakashvili. He made great contribution to Georgia. Starting early tomorrow with PM Ivanishvili
Excellent that we get new moment in EU accession talks with Turkey with opening Chapter 22.   it be a coincidence that there was pleasant sun in Chisinau and light rain in Kiev? Hope so. Let’s see what Tbilisi looks like tonight.
Massive media interest after our long meeting with Ukraine President Yanukovich.  delayed, but now wheels up from Kiev and heading for Tbilisi and the evening meetings planned there. Third capital today.
If there is green light from Cox/Kwasniewski mission there will be green light for Ukraine and EU. If there is no green light then not.
We saw also Yevgenia Tymoshenko and discussed the situation of her mother. Together with all the opposition leaders here in Kiev.
Landed Kiev. First meeting with PM Azarov and FM Kozhara. Then all opposition leaders. Then President. Then media. Diplomacy on the move.
Very sorry that we had to cancel student meeting in Kiev today. President Yanukovich instead. Next time!  @sikorskiradek talked to Polish media as well just before our departure to Kiev.  a picture from our press conference with Moldova PM Leanca an hour or so ago.  for Kiev and some intense hours there. Everything in the balance. We will see President Yanukovich as well as opposition leaders.
Moldova is moving forward. Will initial Association and DCFTA agreement with EU at Vilnius summit. Opens truly new perspectives for country.
Soon leaving Moldova and heading to Kiev. But first TV interviews together with @sikorskiradek.  day with working breakfast with Moldova PM @IurieLeanca. Important that his government continues on its EU reform path.
My statement in Seoul on principles for state surveillance seems to attracting increasing attention.  evening with leaders of Moldova’s governing parties. Encouraged them to stay together on EU reform agenda.  And to implement reforms.
And now it’s wheels up for Chisinau together with @sikorskiradek. Start of tour to Moldova, Ukraine and Georgia during next two days.
Now for quick talk with Serbia PM Ivica Dacic who's also here in Luxembourg today. EU process and relations with Kosovo in focus.
Lunch with Aung San Suu Kyi discussing challenges of constitution, coming elections, ethnic tensions and economy in Myammar/Burma.
All efforts should now be focused on getting everyone around the table for Geneva2 conference on Syria. Geneva1 communique the basis.
Strong and united support for Eastern Partnership policy. Conditions must be meet fully. Huge long-term benefits. Pressure unacceptable.
Here my remarks to the media as I entered the great EU building in Luxembourg prior to our discussions today.  together with @sikorskiradek on Eastern Partnership in Ukrainska Pravda of Kiev today.     early wheels up for Luxembourg and EU FM’s meeting there. Eastern Partnership, Myanmar and Syria among topics on the agenda.
Sorry, I forget that Swedish forces were also in the UNPREDEP mission in Macedonia. We have been in all UN and Nato mission in Balkans.
Today end of armed Swedish peace efforts in Balkans that began in 1992. UNPROFOR, IFOR, SFOR and KFOR. Now EU integration driving region.
Small thing, but worth noting that San Marino had referendum on whether to apply for membership in the EU today.  Sort of surrounded.
I salute all Swedish soldiers who have served in our KFOR forces in Kosovo since 1999. Last day of our mission there today.
Leaving Norrköping after successful Moderate Party congress.  Excellent platform for twin elections in 2014.  continue here in Norrköping this morning. Food issue on the agenda at the moment.  in truly historic Balkh province of Afghanistan also Swedish forces are helping with stability.  Johnsson contributing to high spirits this evening! More to come, I suspect.  Korea Times interview I stress openness as key to Sweden's success as internet nation.   enjoying seeing old and new friends at Moderate Party Congress here in Norrköping. #mstämma  with a political agreement on key elements of a Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and and EU.
As usual a heavy and important agenda when EU FM’s come together in Luxembourg on Monday.  14 hours after taking off from Seoul I have at least landed in Stockholm. Was nice view of Lake Baikal. Now to Norrköping. #mstämma
Yes, next week Poland FM @sikorskiradek and myself will go together to Chisinau, Kiev and Tbilisi.  @Finnair Waiting for that. And in some weeks heading to Delhi - via Helsinki.
Taking off from Seoul with Norrköping and #mstamma as final destination. But there are, mildly speaking, no direct flights.
Congratulations to Lithuania and @LinkeviciusL on country being elected to UN Security Council for a period.
@sptvrock Absolutely!
Here my remarks at @seoulcyber2013 earlier today. On norms for state behaviour on the net. And other issues.  evening here in Gangnam. See if we can get also ministers going on the style. But my Korea FM colleague keeps talking about Abba…
As usual a very good meeting with new Australia FM Julie Bishop. Building even stronger relations.  now for @AJELive  to talk about our discussions here at @seoulcyber2013.
My call for rules of behaviour for states on the net, including on surveillance, got a lot of support.  was also time for a more formal bilateral meeting with Korea FM Yun Byung-se.  spoke about principles to guide and limit state surveillance activities on the net. Necessary for security. Should not endanger values.
At @seoulcyber2013 I call for a new global dialogue on norms of behaviour of states on the net. To protect freedom and guarantee security.
Korea President Park Geun-hye just opened cyber conference with 1600 delegates from 87 countries.  warmly welcome the new constructive momentum established in the Iran nuclear talks.  will be live streaming as the Seoul Cyber Conference gets going soon.   evidence of lack of armistice in cyber relations between two Korea states. Attacks from North are frequent.  good that some are thinking through the consequences of a collapse of the regime in North Korea.  was a beautiful day in Seoul today. We are expecting the same tomorrow.  with Norway FM @borgebrende after his official appointment a couple of hours ago. We will meet very soon.
Start of @seoulcyber2013. Good gathering of ministries and experts from app 80 countries. Attention to these issues increasing fast.
Best congratulations to new Norway FM @borgebrende. We have already been in touch on working together.
With US Gen Scaparotti, Swe Gen Grundevik and Swe Amb Danielsson. Common interest in armistice in Korea.  to note that our new archbishop of Sweden  @BiskopAntje is also on twitter. Congratulations on election!
About to take off from Frankfurt to Seoul. Should be there by midday tomorrow local time. A night over Asia.
On the must-read report on future of EU common security and defence policy. Key issue for December European Council.  that the Cox and Kwasnieski mission finds that Ukraine has not yet fulfilled conditions for signing agreement with the EU. Serious.
Eid Mubarak on this important day for all Muslims in Sweden or elsewhere.
Time to start journey to @seoulcyber2013. Key summit for freedom, security and governance of the net. Towards world of hyper-connectivity.
Today I had the honour of receiving Church leaders from Damascus discussing the situation in their country.  tweets, sort of, from the Battle of the Nations by Leipzig in 1813. In German. Certainly captures the drama.  to join NATO Response Force and exercise Steadfast Jazz.  years since the Battle of the Nations by Leipzig. Last major battle Swedish army has taken part in.   Iran nuclear talks starting in Geneva tonight. Don’t expect immediate solution. But demand mutual readiness to compromise.
Norway government resigned today. Thanks to both FM @EspenBarthEide and previous FM @jonasgahrstore for excellent cooperation since 2006.
Back to my desk after four and a half hours also constructive discussion in Parliament. Much in common. Except anti-Europeans on fringes.
Thoughtful and important study by CER on preparations for EP elections and the next European Commission.   coffee in Parliament with Netherlands FM Timmermans. We are together in Freedom Online Coalition.  soon have to leave debate in Parliament to see Netherlands FM Frans Timmermans who is in Stockholm together with his King and Queen.
I said in parliament that we will seek to put a C130 Hercules at disposal of UN and OPCW for its effort to rid Syria of chemical weapons.
Somewhat surprising that opposition spokesman didn’t mention either Syria, Europe, Eastern Partnership or net freedom.
In Parliament for foreign policy discussion. I will stress Syria conflict, Eastern Partnership and net freedom, security and governance.
Off to SVT Agenda to discuss EU Eastern Partnership and the other foreign policy challenges we face right now.
Truly enjoying a wonderful clear and sunny day in Stockholm. Good preparation for the week ahead. Cyber conference in Seoul will dominate.
At Istanbul airport waiting for new flight. Seems as if half of the world is passing by here tonight. Vibrant.
Leaving Bodrum and Turkey after succesful @EdamOrg meeting. Syria and EU enlargement in focus for discussions today.
Yes, the issue of al-Qaeda and related groups will be a concern also in post-Assad Syria. Interview with me.  commissioner @KGeorgievaEU on what we can do more together to help Syria. Need is very obvious.   are doing our utmost to find out everything about today’s car bomb against our honorary consulate in Benghazi in Libya. Deeply worrying.
Evening with truly knowledgable persons at @EdamOrg discussing situation in Syria and options as we try to look ahead. Not too reassuring.
Interesting new report from CER on how to build a more modern European Union. Necessary debate.  challenges facing Turkey entering 2014 multi-election year. In a region of turmoil. At annual @EdamOrg conference.
My worries over developments in Libya have certainly not lessened after today’s car bomb outside our honorary consulate in Benghazi.
Nobel Peace Prize to OPCW strong support for banning forever all chemical weapons. All nations must sign, ratify and implement convention.
Seems as if the Bosnia political leaders messed it up today. Again. Feel sorry. I truly care for the country. Deserves better.
Wheels up from Ankara together with Turkey EU Minister  @EgemenBagis. Heading for Bodrum and further discussions there.
Had a very good meeting with Turkey PM Erdogan on a wide range of strategic issues.  preliminary report by @osceodihr on yesterday presidential election in Azerbaijan.    Martins did great services to Europe during long and distinguished career. Great friend. Great loss.  for results from talks between Bosnia political leaders in Brussels today. Crucial for important EU prospects for the country.
Wheels up for Ankara for a day of talks. EU and reform processes. Democracy package. Cyprus prospects. And the tragedy of the Levant.
Deeply worrying developments in Libya since months back. Have international community done enough to help? Troubling question.
Return to pre-2011 levels of economy in Egypt only with political normalization.  Now heading downwards.  a lengthy interview on SVT primarily on Eastern Partnership and different Russia issues.  week to the Seoul Cyber Conference, but we are working high-speed with the different issues on its agenda.  some time with EU representative Bernardino Leon on the situation in Egypt. Deeply worrying.  necessary that @osceodihr is there observing presidential elections in Azerbaijan today.  very happy to see that the tree I planted at LUMS University in Lahore in Pakistan is thriving.  Yes, we support the important democratic development of Mongolia.
Today I will see the new Ambassadors from Guatemala, Botswana, Slovakia, Italy, Pakistan, Kenya, Peru and Mongolia. All important.
Hardly a sign of confidence in the Assad regime when Russia now sends aircraft to evacuate its citizens from Syria.
Today we will hear who will get the Nobel Prize for advancing the frontiers of human knowledge in physics. Always fascinating.
Rights of Mor Gabriel Monastery been of great concern in Sweden. Most welcome that it will now be solved.   welcome that President Putin today has decided that Russia will sign the border treaty with Estonia.
Banning political parties in Egypt is hardly a way to create a credible and inclusive political process.  we are one of the keen supporters of the new Alliance for Affordable Internet. Needed.  @alexstubb Oh yes, I have several trips to Helsinki in my plans. As always.
With registraton of candidates now completed it’s obvious that the Afghanistan president election next April will be very competitive.
Sweden comes out as No. 2 in this year ITU ranking of countries ICT use. Korea No. 1 - I'm there next week.   Business Sweden to discuss our efforts to promote trade and investment. Globalisation in practice.  forces are intensifying efforts to divide Georgia. Divining villages and people.  than 30 people killed in clashes in Egypt today. Horrible. Where is the country heading?
Leaving wonderful Visby after good discussions here at Hjalmarsson conference.  Focus Eastern Partnership.  market of 500 million people but fragmented regulations means innovative start-ups often have to deal with 28 separate market places.
If e-commerce reached 15% of retail sales with functioning Single Market consumers would gain 1,7% of EU GDP. Significant.
@karmel80 Certainly not in everything, but we now see them moving much faster to 4G. Europe is behind.
US and China have unified telecom markets of 315 and 1350 million customers with 3 or 4 operators. Europe fragmented. Risks lagging behind.
By 2020, Europe could add 4% to its GDP by Digital Single Market and save 15-20% in public costs by moving to e-Government. Need to move!
Late dinner in Visby trying to sort out Russian, Swedish, Danish and Finnish historical relations. Failed - but attempt was most enjoyable.
New Russia restrictions on imports from Lithuania sends negative signal to all contemplating trade with Russia. Not good for anyone.
UN SG expresses his concern at the serious violence today in Cairo. Worrying indeed.  to see why some opposition groups are shutting down internet in Aleppo. A lifeline for many.  evening in beautiful Visby. Perhaps even better now than in the full tourist season in the summer. Ideal place for meetings.
Wheels up from Dubrovnik. Visby on the island of Gotland my next destination. From the Balkan to the Baltic world.
What is referred to as twitter diplomacy us gathering more and more interest. Here the NYT today.  euro crisis did not collapse Europe. The fiscal mess will not destroy the US. We are both resilient and determined democratic entities.
@timjudah1 That, as usual, remains to be seen…
Intense discussions on Croatia Forum on how to best develop energy policies in different parts of Europe.  occasion to talk also with Bosnia FM Zlatko Lagumdzija on need to move forward with EU reforms.  and nice dinner in the Balkans. Disturbed in middle of it by our Embassy in Washington reporting about shooting there. Well…
It has to be said that Dubrovnik is at its best at this time of the year. City to yourself, sun us shining and even the water is pleasant.
Productive dinner with FM’s of Croatia, Bosnia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Albania, Latvia and Turkey. We solved most problems…
Sat down with new Albania FM Ditmir Bushati and congratulated on election, government change and progress.
President Josipovic and FM Pusic just opened the discussions on energy security here at the Croatia Forum.   a word from UN Security Council on humanitarian disaster in Syria. But resolution would have been better.  up for Dubrovnik and Croatia Summit there. Energy policy and Balkan integration issues in focus. Good occasion for bilateral talks.
Well, Sweden also seems to top of the global list when it comes to being a good place to become old in.   is ready to speed up provisional application of agreement with Ukraine if it is signed after conditions are meet.  on worrying threats to internet freedom in some parts of the world. Our work increasingly important.  meeting. Noted also how red-green opposition is falling apart on key budget issues. But seem to agree on higher taxes. Bad for jobs.
Interesting to follow journey of Stella Polaris along the Northern Sea Route. New perspectives opens up.  with forward-looking and creative diplomacy on both sides a deal with Iran on nuclear issue should be possible.  news from Rome for Italy and Europe with threat against Letta government averted.
I sincerely hope that the Letta government succeeds in the confidence vote in Rome today. It is important for Italy as well as for Europe.
Portugal is making progress in economic adjustment. Exports increasing rapidly. Current account deficit gone. More stable government.
DAC officially in its report says: “Sweden is fully following DAC criteria and guidance on how it counts administrative and refugee costs.”
@SabineFreizer Not irrelevant question, but still a condition not too difficult to meet. Other issues more important and difficult.
Will see if the leaders of Bosnia will get their act together in talks in Brussels today. They need to get their country moving on EU path.
Ready for parade outside the Royal Palace to receive the President of Portugal.  we will welcome Portugal President Cavaco Silva on State Visit to Sweden. Ceremonial reception at Royal Palace this afternoon.
I was there during last US government shutdown in 1995. Truly ugly politics. Not pretty to the world. But the country survived.
Will be interesting to see if the US has amputated its government when I wake up tomorrow. Then see what Italy does a day later.
Turkey PM Erdogan proposes further key steps to strengthen democracy, include Kurdish rights. Reform of election system possible.
New day. Democratisation package in Turkey. Government uncertainty in Italy. Political mess in Washington. Autumn in Stockholm.
Following result of the Austria election today as it emerges. No fundamental change as things look now.  departures. Amsterdam flight airborne. Sydney preparing. London just boarded. The world on the move.  to Europe. Austrian elections tomorrow. Concerned with new crisis in Italy. PM Letta been important in restoring credibility.
Soon taking off from JFK New York after interesting and successful week at the UN.  New and promising openings, but much remains to be done.
Great finish of great week for UN diplomacy with Security Council deciding unanimously on Syria CW resolution.  make a list of FM colleagues I haven’t seen this week. Likely to be a good deal shorter than list of those I have seen. Puh.
Off to last but more informal meeting of the day. With friend Jordan FM @NasserJudeh. Summing up the diplomacy of the UN week.
Had last few meetings in UN building this week. Saw UN Syria Envoy Lakhdar Brahimi on prospects for tonight’s talks about peace conference.
Breakthrough in twitter diplomacy with Iran President @HassanRouhani tweeting news about phone conversation with President Obama.
Must find time today to read summary of the new important IPCC report on climate change. Huge issue!  out issues with UN SG Ban Ki-moon and HR Angela Kane before meeting on banning nuclear tests.  partnership with Mexico during last two years in working to completely ban nuclear tests. Today handing over to Indonesia and Hungary.
Later there will be streaming of our meeting on important work against all nuclear tests.   new UN day with round table on how to pursue and protect freedom on the net. With @ipinst. The new frontline in work for freedom.
Now off to the traditional dinner discussion we European FM’s have with US SecrState. Normally very informal and informative.
Syria meeting now in ECOSOC chamber here in UN Hq decorated and renovated by Sweden.  mood music between US and Iran FM’s. I’m now in Group of Friends of the Syrian People. Speak on behalf of Nordic and Baltic countries.
Rather amazing that FM’s of US and Iran have not meet for more than three decades. Until today. High time. Give diplomacy a chance.
After meeting Nordic FM’s I have now rushed back to UN building to discuss UNRW help to Palestinian refugees. We give app 50 million dollars
Soon hosting a luncheon with the FM’s from both the Central American and Nordic counties. A tradition from last year.
Listening to Mali President at UN High-Level Meeting on challenges across the Sahel region. We must help with stability and development.
Starting NY day with discussion with @AtlanticCouncil and PM Reinfeldt on future technology trends. Will affect us all in different ways.
Study sees Sweden, Germany, Denmark and Finland as the innovation leaders in Europe. 
wish @nmladenov all the best in his new and most important UN assignment in Iraq.   good discussion with Iran FM @JZarif. Constructive steps needed in next few months.  satisfactory deal with Iran on the nuclear issue is, in my view, perfectly possible. Whether it is likely is another question.
Looks, at the moment, as if preparations for Afghan presidential elections in April 2014 are proceeding well. Of utmost importance.
Time until next summer very critical for diplomacy in Middle East. Agreement on Iran? On Israel/Palestine? On Syria? Or war everywhere?
Rushing from talks on Afghanistan election to meeting with Iran FM @JZarif. Important to use momentum on different issues.
With US SecState Kerry, @EspenBarthEide and others in meeting on economic support to Palestine state-building. Make peace possible.
Starting day with IMF on global economy &amp; Ukraine, UN disarmament people on Syria efforts and Henry Kissinger on the state of the world.
Here is the video of PM Reinfeldt address to the UN General Assembly!  now Fredrik Reinfeldt as the first of all PM's here is addressing the UN General Assembly.  temporary hall for UN General Assembly works, but distinctly less charming.  Renovations ready next year  is setting over the East River. But inside the buildings the discussion continues. Now Argentina.  think I’ll stay here a while and listen to Bosnia and Switzerland. Then to the South Africa reception. Back then for PM Reinfeldt.
Iran President Rouhani in his UN speech mirrors constructive tone of President Obama a couple of hours ago.  down with Catherine Ashton and all other EU FM’s here discussing Syria, Iran, Eastern Partnership and other key issues now.
Moved out in the delightful sun and talked with the UN representative in Afghanistan Jan Kubis.  Chile President Sebastian Piñera together with PM Reinfeldt. A strong and important bilateral relationship - in spite of distance.
Lots of great Swedish bands coming to New York to play this fall.  welcome the more open attitude to talks with Iran that President Obama indicates. Now looking forward to President Rohani speech later.
With PM Reinfeldt just before the start at the general debate here at the UN.  getting together for start of debate at 68th UN General Assembly.  SG Ban Ki-moon first speaker.  now I'm rushing off to discussions at the Social Goods Summit. Was great last year!  photo session with PM Reinfeldt prior to our meeting with UN SG Ban Ki-moon.  we said hello President Obama said he is keen to come back to Stockholm any day. Was a great visit!
Event on protection and promotion of civil society. With US President Obama. Also Swedish voice.